{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":470306,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
Item 1. Business. INDEX TO BUSINESS Section Page General 3 Business Segments 4 North American Pharmaceutical 4 Oncology & Multispecialty 7 Prescription Technology Solutions 8 Medical-Surgical Solutions 8 Investments, Restructuring, Business Combinations, and Divestitures 8 Competition 8 Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights, and Licenses 9 Human Capital 9 Government Regulation 10 Other Information about the Business 13 Forward-Looking Statements 14 General McKesson Corporation together with its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company,” “McKesson,” “we,” “our,” or “us” and other similar pronouns), which traces its business roots to 1833, is a diversified healthcare services leader dedicated to advancing health outcomes for patients everywhere. Our teams partner with biopharma companies, care providers, pharmacies, manufacturers, governments, and others to deliver insights, products, and services to help make quality care more accessible and affordable. The Company’s fiscal year begins on April 1 and ends on March 31. Unless otherwise noted, all references in this document to a particular year refer to the Company’s fiscal year. The Company was incorporated on July 7, 1994 in the State of Delaware. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on the Company’s website ( www.mckesson.com under the “Investors — Financials — SEC Filings” caption) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”) is not incorporated by reference into this report, unless expressly noted otherwise. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the website is www.sec.gov . 3 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION Business Segments Commencing in the second quarter of fiscal 2026, we implemented a new segment reporting structure which resulted in four reportable segments: North American Pharmaceutical, Oncology & Multispecialty, Prescription Technology Solutions, and Medical-Surgical Solutions. Our former Norwegian operati ons were included in Other. All prior segment information has been recast to reflect the Company’s new segment structure and current period presentation. Our North American Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded, generic, specialty, biosimilar and over-the-counter (“OTC”) pharmaceutical drugs, and other healthcare-related products to customers in the United States (“U.S.”) and Canada. In addition, the segment sells financial, operational, and clinical solutions to pharmacies (retail, hospital, alternate sites) and provides consulting, outsourcing, technological, and other services. The U.S. distribution operations were previously included in the former U.S. Pharmaceutical reportable segment, and the Canadian operations were previously included in the former International reportable segment. Our Oncology & Multispecialty segment includes provider solutions that encompass specialty drug distribution, group purchasing organizations, infusion services, direct to patient pharmacy capabilities, InspiroGene™ cell and gene therapy services, technology solutions, practice consulting services, and vaccine distribution. In addition, the segment supports the U.S. Oncology Network, one of the largest networks of physician-led, integrated, community-based oncology practices dedicated to advancing high-quality, evidence-based cancer care in the U.S. The segment also includes PRISM Vision Holdings, LLC (“ PRISM Vision”); which drives patient outcomes in a retina and ophthalmology setting. Combined with Sarah Cannon Research Institute (“SCRI”) and our technology business, Ontada, this segment provides research, insights, technologies, and services that address and improve cancer and specialty care. This segment was previously reflected in the former U.S. Pharmaceutical reportable segment. Our Prescription Technology Solutions segment helps solve medication access, affordability, and adherence challenges for patients by working across healthcare to connect patients, pharmacies, providers, pharmacy benefit managers, health plans, and biopharma companies. Prescription Technology Solutions serves our biopharma and life sciences partners, delivering innovative solutions that help people get the medicine they need to live healthier lives. Prescription Technology Solutions offers technology services, which includes electronic prior authorization, prescription price transparency, benefit insight, dispensing support services, and patient enrollment, in addition to third-party logistics and wholesale distribution support designed to benefit stakeholders. Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment is a leading provider of medical-surgical supplies, laboratory equipment, and pharmaceutical distribution, logistics, and other services to non-acute settings in the U.S. These include healthcare providers operating in ambulatory care environments, such as physician offices, surgery centers, and hospital reference labs, as well as extended care settings, including nursing homes, hospice and home health care agencies, government markets, and online marketplaces and retailers. This segment offers more than 270,000 national brand medical-surgical products as well as its own line of more than 4,000 high-quality products through a network of distribution centers in the U.S. During fiscal 2026, we announced our intention to separate this segment into an independent company. As a part of the separation strategy, on April 20, 2026, we announced a definitive agreement under which funds managed by affiliates of Apollo Global Management, Inc. (“Apollo Funds”) will acquire approximately 13% minority ownership interest in our Medical‑Surgical Solutions segment through an investment of approximately $1.25 billion in the segment’s convertible preferred equity. This transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Our former Norwegian operations, which provided distribution and services to wholesale and retail customers in Norway where we owned, partnered, or franchised with retail pharmacies, were included in Other. During fiscal 2026, we completed the sale of our businesses in Norway. Refer to Financial Note 2, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures ,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for more information. North American Pharmaceutical Segment: Our North American Pharmaceutical segment provides distribution and logistics services for branded, generic, specialty, biosimilar, and OTC pharmaceutical drugs along with other healthcare-related products to customers in the U.S. and Canada. This business provides solutions and services to pharmacies, hospitals, pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, payors, and patients. We also source generic pharmaceutical drugs through our ClarusONE Sourcing Services LLP joint venture with Walmart Inc. (“ClarusONE”). 4 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION U.S. Pharmaceutical Our U.S. Pharmaceutical business operates and serves customers through a network of 27 distribution centers in the U.S., including two strategic redistribution centers. We invest in technology and other systems at all of our distribution centers to enhance safety, reliability, and product availability. For example, we offer McKesson Connect SM , an internet-based ordering system that provides item look-up and real-time inventory availability as well as ordering, purchasing, third-party reconciliation, and account management functionality. We make extensive use of technology as an enabler to ensure customers have the right products at the right time in the right place. To maximize distribution efficiency and effectiveness, we follow the Six Sigma methodology, which is an analytical approach that emphasizes setting high-quality objectives, collecting data, and analyzing results to a fine degree in order to improve processes, reduce costs, and enhance service accuracy and safety. We provide solutions to our customers including supply management technology, world-class marketing programs, managed care, and services to help them meet their business and quality goals. We continue to implement information systems to help achieve greater consistency and accuracy both internally and for our customers, as well as make investments to increase capacity and automation. Within U.S. Pharmaceutical, we have three primary pharmaceutical distribution customer channels: (i) retail national accounts, which include national and regional retail chains, food and drug combinations, mail order pharmacies, and mass merchandisers, (ii) community pharmacy and health, and (iii) institutional healthcare providers such as hospitals, health systems, integrated delivery networks, and long-term care providers. Retail National Accounts: We provide business solutions that help our retail national account customers increase revenues and profitability. Solutions include: • Central Fill SM – Prescription refill service that enables pharmacies to more quickly refill prescriptions remotely, more accurately, and at a lower cost, while reducing inventory levels and improving customer service. • Strategic Redistribution Centers – Two facilities totaling over 740,000 square feet that offer access to inventory for single source warehouse purchasing, including pharmaceuticals and biologics. These distribution centers also provide the foundation for a two-tiered distribution network that supports best-in-class direct store delivery. • McKesson SynerGx ® – Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program and inventory management that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, competitive pricing, and one-stop shopping. • Inventory Management – An integrated solution comprised of forecasting software and automated replenishment technologies that reduce inventory-carrying costs. • ExpressRx Track ™ – Pharmacy automation solution featuring state-of-the-art robotics, upgraded imaging, and expanded vial capabilities, and industry-leading speed and accuracy in a small footprint. Community Pharmacy and Health: We strengthen the overall health of community pharmacies and elevate the role they play in people’s lives. We accomplish this by providing supply chain excellence, pharmacy and patient solutions, as well as supporting independent pharmacies through industry and legislative advocacy. Our pharmacy and patient solutions include: • Health Mart ® – A national network of approximately 3,900 independently-owned pharmacies and one of the industry’s most comprehensive pharmacy franchise programs. Health Mart provides solutions for franchisees to promote excellence in business operations, team development, patient health, marketing and merchandising, and protects financial health through proactive audit support. • Health Mart Atlas ® and Atlas Specialty – Comprehensive managed care services that connect the continuum of care to help community pharmacies, health systems, and physician practices save time, access competitive reimbursement rates, and improve cash flow. • McKesson Reimbursement Advantage SM (“MRA”) – MRA is one of the industry’s most comprehensive reimbursement optimization packages, comprising financial services (automated claim resubmission), analytic services, and customer care. 5 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION • McKesson Provider Pay ® – An automated reconciliation and payment management solution designed to maximize third-party cash flow and pursue unpaid claims. • McKesson Amplify – Provides resources for state pharmacy associations in all 50 states, including dedicated support funding, resources, and opportunities to participate in best practice sharing consortia. The funding helps to support advocacy initiatives that address the unique challenges faced by independent pharmacies and promote their sustainability and growth. • McKesson OneStop Generics ® – Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, competitive pricing, and one-stop shopping. • Pinpoint Community Solutions – McKesson’s perpetual inventory management system targeted to independent pharmacy owners with five or fewer stores. The solution provides customers the opportunity to improve cash flow and increase efficiency with inventory visibility to help maximize operational performance. • FrontEdge™ – Strategic planning, merchandising, and price maintenance program that helps community pharmacies maximize store profitability. • McKesson RxOwnership Program – A confidential, no-fee resource for pharmacists and pharmacy owners interested in buying, starting, or selling an independent pharmacy, regardless of their pharmacy affiliation. Institutional Healthcare Providers: At McKesson, we aim to achieve operational efficiency, reduce waste, and improve the financial performance of our customers so they can achieve more of their goals today and into the future. Solutions include: • Professional and Advisory Services – Comprehensive suite of advisory and consulting services designed to support pharmacy initiatives across health systems, including patient care, business operations, ambulatory services, inpatient operations, data and digitization, pharmacy workforce management, leadership, and compliance with safety, quality, and regulatory standards. Specialized consulting areas include 340B optimization, orphan drug support, and retail pharmacy payer solutions. • McKesson Plasma and Biologics – Specialty and plasma drug distributor that leads in market exclusive drug access; partner to health systems customers in navigating the complexities of limited distribution drug; and optimization of McKesson Distribution benefits. • Outpatient, Retail, and Specialty Pharmacy – A portfolio of services and solutions customized to each customer’s business and clinical strategy. • Contracting and Contract/Purchasing Optimization – Solutions across generics, specialty, branded products, biosimilars, and 340B products, for inpatient and outpatient settings. • Supply Assurance – Solutions and strategies to enhance product availability and proactively manage inventory of critical items. Our U.S. Pharmaceutical business also offers solutions which enable its customers to drive greater efficiencies in their day-to-day operations, effectively managing their inventories and complying with complex government regulations. Solutions include McKesson Pharmacy Systems, MacroHelix, and Supply Logix, all of which provide innovative software technology and services that support retail pharmacies and hospitals. McKesson Canada Our Canadian pharmaceutical business is one of the largest pharmaceutical wholesale and retail distributors in Canada. The wholesale business delivers products to retail pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care centers, clinics, and institutions in Canada through a national network of distribution centers and provides logistics and distribution services for manufacturers. 6 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION Beyond wholesale pharmaceutical logistics and distribution, our Canadian Pharmaceutical business provides automation and technology solutions to its retail and hospital customers. We also provide specialty health services in Canada and biopharma services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, including a national network of specialized pharmacies and patient support and care programs. These services include INVIVA, which operates Canada’s first nationally accredited and one of the largest networks of private infusion clinics. Through our Specialty Health platform, McKesson Canada provides data‑driven insights and real‑world evidence offerings, leveraging de‑identified, privacy‑compliant data to support manufacturers with commercialization, market access, and patient journey optimization. Additionally, McKesson Canada owns and operates PDCI Market Access, a leading Canadian market access and reimbursement consultancy that supports manufacturers in the launch and commercialization of new products in Canada. Our Canadian retail business operates approximately 2,600 independent pharmacies under five nationally recognized banners: IDA®, Guardian®, Remedy’sRx®, Proxim®, and Uniprix®. Oncology & Multispecialty: The Oncology & Multispecialty segment provides a range of solutions to oncology and other specialty practices and offers community physician specialists (oncologists, rheumatologists, ophthalmologists, urologists, neurologists, and other specialists) an extensive set of customizable solutions and services designed to strengthen core practice operations, enhance value-based care delivery, and expand their service offering to patients. Community-based physicians supported by this business have broad flexibility and discretion to select the products and commitment levels that best meet their practice needs. Services in provider solutions include specialty drug distribution, group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) like Onmark ® , technology solutions, practice consulting services, and vaccine distribution. This segment provides a variety of solutions, including practice operations, healthcare information technology, revenue cycle management and managed care contracting solutions, evidence-based guidelines, and quality measurements to support our practice management platforms. These include the U.S. Oncology Network, one of the nation’s largest networks of physician-led, integrated, community-based oncology practices dedicated to advancing high-quality, evidence-based cancer care. The segment also includes an 80% controlling interest in PRISM Vision, a leading provider of general ophthalmology and retina management services. In addition, the segment includes a 51% controlling interest in SCRI, an oncology research business that is one of the nation’s largest research networks and specializes in enhancing clinical trial access and availability across the country. This segment also includes Ontada ® , McKesson’s oncology technology and insights business providing software to support the clinical, financial, and operational needs of our oncology practice customers. Ontada also partners with oncology providers and biopharma partners to perform real-world evidence studies, retrospective research, and to provide clinical data insights, electronic health record to electronic data capture capabilities, advisory solutions, and education opportunities. When we use the terms specialty products or specialty services, we consider the following factors: diseases requiring complex treatment regimens such as cancer and rheumatoid arthritis, plasma and biologics products, ongoing clinical monitoring requirements, high-cost, special handling, storage, and delivery requirements and, in some cases, exclusive distribution arrangements. Our use of the term “specialty” may not be comparable to that used by other industry participants, including our competitors. 7 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION Prescription Technology Solutions Segment: Our Prescription Technology Solutions segment works across healthcare to connect patients, pharmacies, providers, pharmacy benefit managers, health plans, and biopharma to deliver medication access solutions that support patients from first prescription fill to ongoing therapy, regardless of their insurance coverage. Prescription Technology Solutions has connections with most electronic health record systems, over 50,000 pharmacies, more than 1,000,000 providers, most pharmacy benefit managers and health plans, and has supported over 650 biopharma brands representing most therapeutic areas. Through its industry connections and ability to navigate the healthcare ecosystem, Prescription Technology Solutions offers innovative solutions created to benefit healthcare stakeholders. Its comprehensive solution suites and technology services span across the entire patient journey, including medication access and affordability, prescription decision support, prescription price transparency, benefit insight and dispensing support services, patient enrollment, as well as third-party logistics and wholesale distribution support, to help increase speed to therapy, reduce prescription abandonment, and support improved health outcomes for the patient. In the past year, Prescription Technology Solutions helped patients save approximately $10 billion on brand and specialty medications, helped to prevent an estimated 12 million prescriptions from being abandoned due to affordability challenges, and helped patients access their medicine more than 135 million times. Medical-Surgical Solutions Segment: Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment is a leading provider of medical-surgical supplies, laboratory equipment, and pharmaceutical distribution, logistics, biomedical maintenance, and other services to U.S. healthcare providers across the non-acute and alternate-site spectrum. Our more than 336,000 customers include physician offices, surgery centers, post-acute care facilities, hospital reference labs, and home health agencies. We partner with manufacturers and channel partners to support our key markets, including ambulatory care, extended care, government, and other online marketplaces, and retailers. We distribute medical-surgical supplies (such as gloves, needles, syringes, and wound care products), infusion pumps, laboratory equipment and supplies, and pharmaceuticals. Through a network of distribution centers in the U.S., we offer more than 270,000 products from national brand manufacturers and our own brand of more than 4,000 high-quality products. Through the right mix of products and services, we help improve efficiencies, profitability, and compliance. Our focus is to help customers improve patient and business outcomes. We develop customized plans to address the product, operational, and clinical support needs of our customers, including inventory management, reducing administrative burdens, and training and educating clinical staff. We deliver for our customers, so they can deliver and care for their patients. During fiscal 2026, we announced our intention to separate this segment into an independent company. As a part of the separation strategy, on April 20, 2026, we announced we had entered into a definitive agreement under which Apollo Funds will acquire approximately 13% minority ownership interest in our Medical‑Surgical Solutions segment through an investment of approximately $1.25 billion in the segment’s convertible preferred equity. This transaction closing is subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. Investments, Restructuring, Business Combinations, and Divestitures We invest in new and existing distribution centers to increase scale and capacity, improve efficiency through automation and technology, and enhance regulatory compliance capabilities. Additionally, we invest in data and analytics to support our growth priorities, including artificial intelligence (“AI”). We are in the early stages of exploring potential AI capabilities and related data and analytics across our enterprise to improve productivity and efficiency, as well as enhance our products and services to better support patients, employees, and customers. We have undertaken additional strategic initiatives in recent years designed to increase operational efficiencies, focus on our core healthcare businesses, execute our business strategy, and enhance our competitive position. These initiatives are detailed in Financial Note 2, “Business Acquisitions and Divestitures, ” and Financial Note 3, “Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Charges, Net,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Competition We operate in highly competitive markets across North America, and the healthcare industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. Within the pharmaceutical distribution landscape in which our North American Pharmaceutical segment operates, we face strong competition from international, national, regional, and local full-line, short-line, and specialty distributors; service merchandisers; self-warehousing chain drugstores; manufacturers engaged in direct distribution; third-party logistics companies; and large payer organizations. Our primary competitors in distribution, wholesaling, and logistics are Cencora, Inc. and Cardinal Health, Inc. 8 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION In our Oncology & Multispecialty segment, we compete with other specialty distributors; GPOs; specialty pharmacies; oncology networks and platforms; ophthalmology and retina management services providers; and healthcare information technology and data and analytics companies. Certain competitors also offer combinations of distribution, GPO, and provider services capabilities, including Cencora, Inc. and Cardinal Health, Inc. In addition, our clinical research offerings compete with contract research organizations, site management organizations, academic medical centers, and health systems that support clinical trials. Our Prescription Technology Solutions business experiences substantial competition from variety of organizations, including other biopharma services providers, software and technology service firms, consulting firms, shared services vendors, and internet-based companies offering healthcare-focused technology solutions. Competition in this space ranges widely in size, geographic reach, and the scope and depth of products and services offered. Our Medical-Surgical Solutions segment competes with numerous national and regional distributors of medical supplies and equipment throughout the U.S. Additionally, we compete with other service providers and healthcare manufacturers, as well as potential customers who may choose to build internal supply management capabilities rather than rely on external partners like us. We believe that our scale and the breadth of our product and service portfolio are key competitive advantages. In all areas, primary competitive factors include price, quality of service, product assortment, innovation, adoption of emerging technologies, and, in some cases, customer convenience. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights, and Licenses McKesson and its subsidiaries hold patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets related to McKesson products and services. We pursue patent protection for our innovations and obtain copyright protection for our original works of authorship when such protection is advantageous. Through these efforts, we have developed a portfolio of patents and copyrights in the U.S. and worldwide. In addition, we have registered or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in foreign countries. We believe that, in the aggregate, McKesson’s confidential information, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and intellectual property licenses are important to its operations and market position, but we do not consider any of our businesses to be dependent upon any one patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret, or any family or families of the same. We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property portfolio will be sufficient to deter misappropriation, theft, or misuse of our technology, nor that we can successfully enjoin infringers. We periodically receive notices alleging that our products or services infringe on third-party patents and other intellectual property rights. These claims may result in McKesson entering settlement agreements, paying damages, discontinuing use or sale of accused products, or ceasing other activities. While the outcome of any litigation or dispute is inherently uncertain, we do not believe that the resolution of any of these infringement notices would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We hold inbound licenses for certain intellectual property that is used internally, and in some cases, utilized in McKesson’s products or services. While in the future it may be necessary to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and services, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our operations, as well as our products and services, are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with any third party. Human Capital Everything we do at McKesson begins with our employees, who bring our mission and purpose to life every day. As of March 31, 2026, we had more than 43,000 employees worldwide, which includes 1,400 part-time employees. We had approximately 38,000 employees in the U.S., 5,000 employees in Canada, and 400 employees in the rest of the world. We supplement our workforce with contractors and/or consultants for certain business projects, processes, and operations. 9 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION We take pride in our strong culture and fostering a sense of belonging, finding meaning in our work, and caring for each other, our customers, and all those who depend on us. We seek to attract and retain the best talent through regular training, financial assistance programs for higher education opportunities and competitive benefits, compensation and pay for performance, while prioritizing recognition of merit and compliance with laws. Our compensation philosophy is rooted in a fair and transparent program that regularly conducts benchmarking to assess market rates for talent, based on geography and other factors. We solicit employee feedback through annual and mid-year employee opinion surveys that assess our employees’ levels of engagement, commitment and overall satisfaction using industry benchmarks, and then design action plans to improve those metrics. We have procedures and invest in equipment for both physical and electronic safety and security. Our employees receive specialized training related to their role, work setting, and equipment used in their work environment. Government Regulation We operate in many highly regulated environments and are subject to oversight by various federal, state, and local governmental entities in the U.S. and elsewhere. We incur significant expense and make large capital expenditures and investments to enable us to comply with laws and guidance promulgated by governmental entities. The regulatory framework affecting our business and industry is continually evolving and influenced by conditions such as public policy developments; shifts in governmental priorities, initiatives, and focus areas, including due to changes in federal, state, and local representation; and varied interpretations of laws and agency rulemaking conventions. These conditions create uncertainties for our business, and we are unable to predict the impact of future changes to the regulatory framework, or any prolonged uncertainty, on our operations and compliance costs. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I below for additional information regarding material risks associated with our compliance with governmental regulations. Operational Licenses and Permits; Controlled Substances: We are subject to the operating and security standards of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, and comparable agencies in the U.S. and other countries. Certain of our businesses may be required to register for permits and/or licenses with governmental agencies, depending upon the type of operations and location of product development, manufacture, distribution, and sale. For example, we are required to hold valid DEA and state-level registrations and licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the Controlled Substances Act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, marketing, packaging, holding, distribution, and disposal of controlled substances. We maintain extensive controlled substance monitoring and reporting programs at considerable expense in order to help us meet those standards. Government Contracts: Our contracts with governmental entities typically are subject to procurement laws that include socio-economic, employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping and accounting, and other requirements. These statutory and regulatory requirements complicate our business and increase our compliance burden. We are subject to audits, investigations, and oversight proceedings about our compliance with contractual and legal requirements. Healthcare Program Regulation : Federal, state, and local governmental entities in the U.S. and elsewhere continue to strengthen their position on, and scrutiny of, practices that they believe may indicate fraud, waste, and abuse affecting government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Our relationships with pharmaceutical and medical-surgical product manufacturers, healthcare providers, and other companies and individuals, as well as our provision of products and services to governmental entities, subject our business to statutes, regulations, and government guidance that are intended to prevent fraud and abuse. Among other things, those laws: (1) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of an individual for, or to induce the ordering or purchasing of, items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid, or other government healthcare programs; (2) prohibit physicians from referring certain “designated health services” to an entity with which they have a financial relationship, unless an exception applies; (3) prohibit knowingly submitting, or causing to be submitted, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to the 10 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION government; and (4) require certain entities to report and return an overpayment by Medicare or Medicaid within 60 days of identifying the overpayment. Many of these healthcare fraud and abuse laws are vague or indefinite, and are often subject to varied and evolving interpretations by courts, regulators, and enforcing agencies and, as such, may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory, or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations at added expense. The healthcare industry continues to be impacted by reform efforts aimed at reducing costs and government spending, as well as by challenges to those efforts. In the U.S., the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) significantly expanded health insurance coverage to uninsured Americans and changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private payors. The ACA has faced scrutiny since its adoption, and we cannot predict the impact of any initiatives to change or repeal its provisions. Further, the ACA’s enhanced premium subsidies expired on December 31, 2025, and remain subject to ongoing Congressional review. The nonrenewal of, or any modifications to, these subsidies may reduce the availability of insurance coverage for certain patients and, in turn, impact our customers and our business. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) made meaningful changes affecting benefit design and how Medicare pays for drugs, which are all intended to reduce the price of drugs. Three central features of the IRA have authorized the government to negotiate drug prices for certain Medicare Part B and Medicare Part D drugs over time, establish an inflation rebate program, and cap patient cost sharing under Medicare Part D. The ongoing implementation of the IRA may significantly affect the pharmaceutical value chain as manufacturers, pharmacy benefit managers, managed care organizations, and other stakeholders adapt their business models. Considerable uncertainty remains, including due to any future regulations and guidance. The One Big Beautiful Bill (“OBBBA”), enacted in July 2025, includes provisions expected to reduce Medicaid enrollment and federal funding to state Medicaid programs, which may limit coverage or payment for products and services and impact the financial stability of our customers. Executive Order 14297, “Delivering Most-Favored-Nation Prescription Drug Pricing to American Patients,” issued in May 2025, seeks to facilitate manufacturers’ sale of certain drugs in the U.S. at no higher than the lowest prices paid in other developed countries. It also directs HHS to enable direct-to-consumer purchasing programs for prescription drugs at most-favored-nation prices, which may bypass supply chain intermediaries. Separately, CMS adopted a rule, effective January 1, 2026, on bona fide service fees (“BFSFs”) paid by drug manufacturers, including wholesaler distribution fees. The rule requires manufacturers to obtain certifications from wholesalers and other fee recipients that the fee recipient does not pass on the fee to a client or customer. Manufacturers are required to submit these certifications to CMS as part of their quarterly average sales price reporting. This rule creates a risk that certifications, when and if given, could be challenged, and that manufacturers may seek modifications to their service agreements. CMS waived the initial Q1 2026 reporting deadline that had been set for April 30, 2026. As of the date of this report, the form and scope of the certification requirements remain subject to change. CMS may also pursue additional changes to BFSF requirements in future rulemaking cycles that may impact fee recipients, including wholesalers. CMS also proposed two rules in December 2025 that, if finalized, would implement mandatory manufacturer rebate models for certain Medicare Part B and Medicare Part D drugs based on international pricing benchmarks. These models would be tested in select geographic areas over a multi-year trial period. There are ongoing developments with respect to the 340B Drug Pricing Program (the “340B program”) administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration (“HRSA”). The 340B program requires manufacturers to offer discounts on certain drugs purchased by “covered entities” such as safety-net providers, and some of our customers are covered entities or contract pharmacies for covered entities. Various manufacturers have unilaterally restricted sales under the 340B program to a limited number of contract pharmacies, and these practices are the subject of ongoing litigation. Further, HRSA continues to evaluate the potential implementation of a retrospective rebate model to effectuate 340B pricing in lieu of upfront discounts. A coalition of covered entities successfully challenged HRSA’s previously proposed rebate model pilot program, which had been scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2026. HRSA announced that pilot program amid separate litigation over its refusal to approve alternative rebate models proposed by manufacturers, and this litigation continues. These developments could, for example, limit the availability of 340B pricing or discounts for our customers. It is uncertain whether other changes to the 340B program may be effected through legislation, regulation, or judicial decision, or whether manufacturers will reduce their participation in or take other approaches to the 340B program. The cumulative impact of the foregoing on our customers and our business is difficult to predict. Additionally, some states have enacted or are considering laws imposing caps or limits on the price of certain drugs distributed by wholesalers in those states. If upheld or enacted, these laws could encourage similar measures in other jurisdictions and could, directly or indirectly, affect wholesaler distribution economics. We continue to monitor these and other state reform initiatives and their potential impact on our business. 11 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION Outside the U.S., provincial governments in Canada that provide partial funding for the purchase of pharmaceuticals and independently regulate the sale and reimbursement of drugs have sought to reduce the costs of publicly funded health programs. For example, these governments have taken steps to reduce consumer prices for generic pharmaceuticals and, in some provinces, change professional allowances paid to pharmacists by generic drug manufacturers. FDA Regulation and Supply Chain Integrity: In the U.S., the FDA is the principal federal authority that regulates the safety, efficacy, quality, testing, premarket approval, manufacture, labeling, storage, distribution, and post-market surveillance of healthcare products, such as drugs and medical devices, foods, and cosmetics. Federal and state laws regulate the pharmaceutical drug supply chain in order to prevent the distribution of counterfeit, stolen, contaminated, or otherwise harmful prescription drugs in interstate commerce. At the federal level, the Drug Supply Chain Security Act (“DSCSA”), among other things, requires standardized, unit-level traceability of pharmaceutical products along the entire drug supply chain and requires all trading partners to cooperate in an electronic, interoperable prescription drug traceability system. The DSCSA also sets forth national standards for the licensure of wholesale drug distributors and third-party logistic providers and other requirements applicable to these entities and the FDA has issued a proposed rule with respect to these requirements. These federal and state regulatory requirements have increased, and may further increase, our compliance burden and distribution costs. Additionally, federal and state governments may adopt other laws intended to protect the integrity of the supply chain, and those laws could affect our distribution business. For example, the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and HHS issued a request for public comment in 2024 on how the practices of pharmaceutical wholesalers and group purchasing organizations impact generic drug shortages. Various industry stakeholders responded to this request, but no further action has been taken by the FTC or HHS. Cybersecurity, Data Security, Privacy, and AI: We are subject to many cybersecurity, privacy, and data protection laws that change frequently and have requirements that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Our efforts to comply with these laws complicate our operations and add to our costs. We are subject to significant compliance obligations under privacy laws such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act in Canada, and an expanding list of comprehensive state privacy laws in the U.S. Some privacy laws may prohibit the transfer of personal information to certain other jurisdictions or otherwise limit our use and disclosure of data. Many of these laws also require us to provide access or other data rights (modification, deletion, portability, etc.) to consumers’ and patients’ individual personal data records within specified periods of time. Cybersecurity laws such as the federal Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act of 2022, proposed changes to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and SEC reporting requirements may require us to provide notifications of certain cybersecurity incidents within short timeframes. Regulations and guidance targeting critical infrastructure entities, including McKesson, continue to be a focus of regulators. We are subject to privacy and data protection compliance audits or investigations by various governmental agencies. Additionally, AI laws and guidance are rapidly expanding and changing, with potential differences or conflicts across jurisdictions. This creates uncertainty and regulatory risk, including for healthcare-related uses of AI. If we or our third-party providers are restricted from using AI as a result of any laws, regulatory views, or other measures, it could impact our operations and competitiveness, increase our compliance expense and burden (including related to any documentation, risk management, or transparency measures), and cause us to modify our use, development, or deployment of AI and incur substantial costs. We also could be subject to increased litigation and enforcement risks. The cumulative impact of these evolving requirements on our business is difficult to predict. Environmental Regulation: We are subject to requirements in various jurisdictions concerning the environment, including laws addressing discharges into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the remediation of contaminated sites, as well as laws governing the operation of radiation-emitting equipment at the U.S. Oncology Network practices. We sold our chemical distribution operations in 1987 and retained responsibility for certain environmental obligations. Agreements with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and certain states have required and may require environmental assessments and remediation at several sites. These matters are described further in Financial Note 17, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. 12 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION Climate Change Regulation: Governments in the U.S. and abroad have adopted or are considering new or expanded policies and laws to address climate change. Such policies and laws may necessitate reductions in greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions; mandate that companies implement processes and controls to monitor and disclose climate-related matters; and impose additional taxes or offset charges on specified energy sources, among other requirements. Compliance with climate-related policies and laws may be further complicated by disparate regulatory approaches in various jurisdictions. New or expanded climate-related policies and laws could impose costs on us, including capital expenditures to develop or modify data gathering and reporting systems, third-party attestations, and additional GHG reduction measures. Until the timing and extent of climate-related policies and laws are clarified, including due to legal challenges, we cannot predict their potential effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations, or competitive position. Competition and Related Laws : Antitrust and competition laws (“competition laws”) in the U.S. and elsewhere prohibit types of conduct, practices, or arrangements deemed to be anti-competitive. Enforcement of competition laws in the healthcare industry remains a focus of the FTC and the U.S. Department of Justice. Some of our strategic transactions may require review by competition regulators, with potential delays or other unfavorable outcomes. Violations of competition laws can result in sanctions and other adverse actions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffs also may bring civil lawsuits for alleged violations of competition laws, including claims for treble damages. Additionally, laws may be proposed to restrict certain healthcare ownership structures or arrangements, such as vertical integration involving physician practice administrative or management services and pharmaceutical distribution services, where traditional antitrust standards might not be implicated. Competition and related laws contribute to our compliance efforts and expense, and the enforcement, enactment, expansion, or application of any of the foregoing types of laws might materially adversely affect our operations and growth strategy. Other Information about the Business Customers: During fiscal 2026, sales to our ten largest customers, including group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) accounted for approximately 73% of our total consolidated revenues. Sales to our largest customer, CVS Health Corporation (“CVS”), accounted for approximately 24% of our total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2026. In fiscal 2023, we extended our pharmaceutical distribution partnership with CVS to June 2027. Sales to our next two largest customers accounted for 11% and 10% of total consolidated revenues in fiscal 2026. Our ten largest customers comprised approximately 43% of total trade accounts receivable at March 31, 2026. CVS was approximately 21% of our total trade accounts receivable at March 31, 2026. We also have agreements with GPOs, each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of member hospitals, pharmacies, and other healthcare providers, as well as with government entities and agencies. The accounts receivable balances are with individual members of the GPOs, and therefore no significant concentration of credit risk exists. Substantially all of these revenues and accounts receivable are included in our North American Pharmaceutical segment. Suppliers: We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers and our largest supplier accounted for 11% of our total purchases in fiscal 2026. The loss of a supplier could adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable. We believe that our relationships with our suppliers are generally sound. The ten largest suppliers in fiscal 2026 accounted for approximately 71% of our total purchases. Some of our distribution arrangements with manufacturers provide us consideration based on a percentage of our purchases. In addition, we have certain distribution arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers that include an inflation-based consideration component whereby we benefit when the manufacturers increase their prices as we sell our existing inventory at the new higher prices. For these manufacturers, a reduction in the frequency and magnitude of price increases, as well as restrictions in the amount of inventory available to us, could have an adverse impact on our gross profit margin. Research and Development: Research and development expenses were $103 million, $91 million, and $77 million for the years ended March 31, 2026, 2025, and 2024, respectively. Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations: Certain financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations is discussed in Financial Note 20, “Segments of Business,” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report as well as in “Foreign Operations” in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report. 13 Table of Contents Item 1 Index McKESSON CORPORATION Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II of this report and the “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of this report, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of terminology such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “approximately,” “intends,” “projects,” “plans,” “estimates,” “targets,” or the negative of these words or other comparable terminology. The discussion of trends, strategy, plans, prospects, assumptions, expectations, or intentions may also include forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not representations of historical or current facts or circumstances and they involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, or implied. Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A of Part I of this report under “Risk Factors” and in our publicly available SEC filings and press releases. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date such statements were first made. Except to the extent required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date the statements are made, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Available Information We routinely post on our company website, and via our social media channels, information that may be material to investors, including details and updates to information disclosed elsewhere, which may include business developments, earnings and financial performance, sustainability matters, details regarding upcoming events, and materials for presentations to investors and financial analysts. Investors are encouraged to monitor our website, www.mckesson.com . Interested parties can sign up on our website, including our Investor Relations site, to receive automated e-mail alerts, such as via RSS newsfeed, when we post certain information. Interested parties can also follow our social media feed @McKesson on X. The content on any website or social media channel is not incorporated by reference into this report, unless expressly noted otherwise. Item 1A. Risk Factors. INDEX TO RISK FACTORS Section Page Litigation and Regulatory Risks 15 Company and Operational Risks 17 Industry and Economic Risks 23 General Risks 25 The discussion below identifies certain representative risks that might cause our actual business results to materially differ from our forward looking statements. It is not practical to identify or describe all risks and uncertainties that might materially impact our business operations, reputation, financial position, or results of operations. Our business could be materially affected by risks that we have not identified or that we currently consider to be immaterial. This is not a complete discussion of all potential risks and uncertainties. The characterization of a risk as potential does not mean the risk has not occurred, is not currently occurring, or is unlikely to occur. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION Litigation and Regulatory Risks We experience costly and disruptive legal disputes. We are routinely named as a defendant in litigation or regulatory proceedings and other legal disputes, which may include asserted class action litigation, such as those described in Financial Note 17, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, ” to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Regulatory proceedings involve allegations such as false claims, healthcare fraud and abuse, and violations of competition laws. Civil litigation proceedings involve commercial, employment, environmental, intellectual property, tort, and other claims. Despite valid defenses that we assert, legal disputes are often costly, time-consuming, distracting to management, and disruptive to normal business operations. The uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved legal disputes might harm our business and reputation even if the matter ultimately is favorably resolved. The outcome of legal disputes is difficult to predict, and outcomes may occur that we believe are not justified by the evidence or existing law. Outcomes include monetary damages, penalties and fines, and injunctive or other relief that requires us to change our business operations, practices, or arrangements and incur significant expense. Accordingly, legal disputes might have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, our business operations, and our financial position or results of operations. We experience losses not covered by insurance or indemnification. Our business exposes us to risks that are inherent in the distribution, manufacturing, dispensing, and administration of pharmaceuticals and medical-surgical supplies, the provision of ancillary services, the conduct of our payer businesses, practice support services, and the provision of products that assist clinical decision-making and relate to patient medical histories and treatment plans. For example, pharmacy operations are exposed to risks such as improper filling of prescriptions, mislabeling of prescriptions, inadequacy of warnings, unintentional distribution of counterfeit drugs, and expiration of drugs. Although we seek to maintain adequate insurance coverage, such as property insurance for inventory and professional and general liability insurance, coverages on acceptable terms might be unavailable, or coverages might not cover our losses. We generally seek to limit our contractual exposure, but limitations of liability or indemnity provisions in our contracts may not be enforceable or adequately protect us from liability. Uninsured or non-indemnified losses might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. We experience costly legal disputes, government actions, and adverse publicity regarding our role in distributing controlled substances such as opioids. The Company is a defendant in many litigation matters alleging claims related to the distribution of controlled substances (opioids), as described in Financial Note 17, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report. We are sometimes named as a defendant in similar, new cases. The plaintiffs in those cases include governmental entities (such as states, provinces, counties, and municipalities) as well as businesses, groups, and individuals. The cases allege violations of controlled substance laws and other laws, and they make common law claims such as negligence and public nuisance. Many of these cases raise novel theories of liability and can have unexpected outcomes that we believe are not justified by evidence or existing law. Legal proceedings such as these often involve significant expense, management time and distraction, and risk of loss that can be difficult to predict or quantify. It is not uncommon for claims to be resolved over many years. Outcomes include monetary damages, penalties and fines, and injunctive or other relief that requires us to change our business operations and incur significant expense. Although the Company has valid defenses and is vigorously defending itself, some proceedings have been, and others may be, resolved by negotiated outcome. For example, we are subject to consent decrees issued by state courts that govern our distribution of controlled substances. Not all proceedings, however, are resolved by settlement. Our reputation has been and may continue to be impacted by publicity regarding opioids litigation and related allegations. An adverse outcome of any such legal proceedings might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION We are subject to extensive, complex, challenging, and frequently changing healthcare, environmental, and other laws, and may experience increased costs to distribute controlled substances such as opioids. We are subject to extensive, complex, challenging, and frequently changing healthcare, environmental, and other laws. As described in “Government Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I above, our industry is highly regulated and subject to a regulatory framework that is continually evolving. Legislative, regulatory, or industry measures related to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances could affect our business in ways that we may not be able to predict. Further regulation of our distribution operations, technology, products, or services, or other aspects of our business, could impose increased costs, negatively impact our profit margins and the profit margins of our customers, delay the introduction or implementation of our new products, place restrictions on or require modifications to our practices or arrangements, limit our strategic options, or expose us to litigation and regulatory investigations, reviews, or other proceedings. We are subject to routine and ad hoc inspections and requests for information by governmental agencies to determine compliance with various statutes and regulations. We also incur remediation costs, and may incur additional costs, under environmental laws. Any noncompliance by us with applicable laws, or any failure to maintain, renew, or obtain necessary permits and licenses, could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties, or other sanctions. In addition, certain states have enacted, and others continue to consider, legislation that would impose taxes, assessments, or similar charges on the distribution of controlled substances, including prescription opioids. Any such taxes, assessments, or other related compliance obligations could increase our costs, require changes to our distribution practices, or lead to adverse publicity. The scope, application, and financial impact of these measures vary by jurisdiction and may be difficult to predict. Any of the foregoing risks might have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. We are subject to extensive and frequently changing laws relating to healthcare fraud, waste, and abuse. As described in “Government Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I above, federal, state, and local governmental entities in the U.S. and elsewhere continue to strengthen their position on, and scrutiny of, practices that may indicate fraud, waste, and abuse affecting government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Those laws may be interpreted or applied in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations at added expense. Alleged failures to comply with those laws, including the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, expose us to federal or state government investigations or qui tam actions, and to liability for damages and civil and criminal penalties. Such failures might result in the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal and state healthcare programs, or pursue government contracts. These sanctions might have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. We might lose our ability to purchase, store, or distribute pharmaceuticals, including controlled substances, and medical products. As described in “Government Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I above, we are subject to the operating, quality, regulatory, and security requirements of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, CMS, and other agencies. Noncompliance with these requirements can result in inspectional observations, warning letters, product recalls, withdrawals or other market action, fines, seizures, injunctions, and other administrative, civil, and criminal enforcement actions. Noncompliance, enforcement actions or adverse decisions by regulators, or the inability to obtain, maintain, or renew permits, licenses, or other regulatory approvals needed for the operation of our businesses might have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. Privacy, cybersecurity, data protection, and AI laws and guidance increase our compliance burden and expose us to risks. As described in “Government Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I above, we are subject to a variety of privacy, cybersecurity, and data protection laws that change frequently and have requirements that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, as well as to rapidly developing and potentially divergent AI laws and guidance. Some of our contractual obligations might be breached if we fail to comply with privacy and data security laws. The use of AI solutions by our employees or third parties on which we rely could also lead to the misuse of data or public disclosure of confidential information (including personal data or proprietary information) in contravention of our internal policies and safeguards, applicable laws, contractual requirements, or third-party intellectual property rights. Our efforts to comply with privacy, data security, and AI laws and guidance complicate our operations and add to our costs. Any failure or perceived failure by us or any third-party providers to comply with these laws and guidance could subject us to regulatory enforcement activity, fines, investigations, legal proceedings (including private litigation such as class actions), liability, reputational impacts, and costs. Any of the foregoing risks might have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, our business operations, and our financial position or results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION Anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws increase our compliance burden and expose us to risks. We are subject to laws prohibiting improper payments and bribery, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar regulations in other jurisdictions. Our failure to comply with these laws might subject us to civil and criminal penalties that might have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, our business operations, and our financial position or results of operations. Company and Operational Risks We might record significant charges from impairment to goodwill, intangibles, and other long-lived assets. We are required under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) to test our goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if indicators for potential impairment exist. Indicators that are considered include significant changes in performance relative to expected operating results, significant changes in the use of the assets, significant negative industry or economic trends, or a significant decline in the Company’s stock price and/or market capitalization for a sustained period of time. In addition, we periodically review our intangible and other long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible and other long-lived assets may not be recoverable include slower growth rates, the loss of a significant customer, burdensome new laws or other adverse legal developments, or divestiture of a business or asset for less than its carrying value. There are inherent uncertainties in management’s estimates, judgments, and assumptions used in assessing recoverability of goodwill, intangibles, and other long-lived assets. Any material changes in key assumptions, including failure to meet business plans, negative changes in government reimbursement rates, a deterioration in the U.S. and global financial markets, an increase in interest rates, an increase in inflation, or an increase in the cost of equity financing by market participants within the industry, or other unanticipated events and circumstances, may decrease the projected cash flows or increase the discount rates and could potentially result in an impairment charge. We have in the past recorded, and may be required to record, a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or intangible and other long-lived assets is determined, which might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. See Financial Note 10, “Goodwill and Intangible Assets,” for descriptions of impairments of goodwill or intangible or other long-lived assets in recent periods. 17 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION We experience cybersecurity incidents that might significantly compromise our technology systems or might result in material data breaches. We, our external service providers, vendors, and other third parties with which we do business, use technology and systems to perform our business operations, such as the secure electronic transmission, processing, storage, and hosting of sensitive information, including protected health information and other types of personal information, confidential financial information, proprietary information, and other sensitive information relating to our customers, company, and workforce. Despite our physical, technical, and administrative security measures as well as third party risk management processes as discussed in “Cybersecurity” in Item 1C of Part I below, technology systems and operations of the Company and third parties, including our external service providers and vendors, with which we do business, have experienced cybersecurity incidents and are subject to future cyberattacks and cybersecurity incidents. Companies in the healthcare industry are increasingly targeted for cyberattacks. Cybersecurity incidents include unauthorized occurrences on or conducted through our or our third parties’ information systems, such as tampering, malware insertion, ransomware attacks, or other system integrity events. The risk and efficacy of cyberattacks increases from time to time due to a variety of internal and external factors, including, but not limited to, the use by threat actors of sophisticated and rapidly evolving techniques, such as adversarial AI (which makes cyberattacks more likely and may make them more difficult to detect, contain, or mitigate), and the existence of political or military unrest. Our own adoption and use of AI also may create new attack surfaces or methods and generally increase cybersecurity and data protection risks and costs. A cybersecurity incident might involve a material data breach or other material impact to the confidentiality, integrity, availability, or operations of our technology systems or data (including the misuse, loss, disclosure, or corruption of proprietary or personal information), which might result in harm to patients, consumers, or employees; litigation or regulatory action; disruption of our business operations; loss of customers or revenue; cash flow impacts; and increased expense. Additionally, it may take considerable time for us to investigate and evaluate the full impact of incidents, particularly for sophisticated attacks. These factors may inhibit our ability to provide prompt, full, and reliable information about the incident to our customers, regulators, and the public. Any cybersecurity incident might have a materially adverse impact on our business, our operations, our reputation, and our financial position or results of operations. We experience significant problems with information systems or networks. We rely on sophisticated information systems and networks to perform our business operations, such as to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, and manage data that facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from distribution centers. We provide remote services that involve hosting customer data and operating software on our own or third-party systems. Our customers rely on their ability to access and use these systems, and their data, as needed, and our ability to compete effectively is increasingly dependent on access to, and interpretation of, data. Data quality impacts customer ordering, order fulfillment and higher order processing. If we fail to effectively implement and maintain data governance structures across our businesses, to effectively interpret and utilize such data, or protect the integrity of such data, including systems powered by or incorporating AI and machine learning, our operations could be impacted, and we may be at a competitive disadvantage. Our networks and hosting systems are also vulnerable to interruption or damage from sources beyond our control. When those information systems or networks are disrupted, or if the timely delivery of medical care or other customer business requirements are impaired, we experience injury to patients or consumers, litigation or regulatory action, disruption of our business operations, loss of customers or revenue, cash flow impacts, and increased expense. In addition, hardware, software, and other applications and updates procured from third parties may contain defects that have, or may in the future, unexpectedly restrict access to or interfere with the proper operations of our information systems and hardware. Any such problems might have a materially adverse impact on our business, our reputation, and our financial position or results of operations. Our technology products or services might not conform to specifications or perform as we intend. We sell and provide services involving complex software and technology that may contain errors, especially when first introduced to market. Healthcare professionals delivering patient care have heightened sensitivity to system and software errors due, among other reasons, to the critical nature of healthcare decisions. If our software and technology services are alleged to have contributed to faulty clinical decisions, compromised continuity of patient care, or injury to patients, we might be subject to regulatory scrutiny or claims by users of our software or services and/or their patients. Errors or failures might damage our reputation and negatively affect future sales. A failure of a system or software to conform to specifications might constitute a breach of warranty that could result in repair costs, contract termination, refunds, or claims for damages. The adoption and use of new technologies, including AI, may introduce new or enhanced risks, such as data inaccuracy, unreliability, or bias, as well as ethical or privacy concerns. Any of these types of errors, failures, or risks might have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, our business operations, and our financial position or results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION The adoption and use of AI in our business operations exposes us to risks and uncertainties . We increasingly rely on technologies powered by or incorporating AI in our internal operations and business processes. The use of AI technologies introduces risks and uncertainties. AI can generate outputs that are false, misleading, incomplete, biased, or inconsistent. AI performance may degrade over time, or earlier than we planned, due to changes in inputs, data drift, updates by vendors, adversarial manipulations, and other causes. Our investments in AI may not yield anticipated benefits, and we might expend significant resources to maintain responsible and effective AI capabilities. Reliance on third-party AI tools and solutions may expose us to risks that are outside of our control, including compliance gaps. Our AI policies and safeguards may not be sufficient to protect us against negative outcomes, such as the misuse or loss of data or the compromise of our intellectual property. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely impact our reputation, our business operations, and our financial position or results of operations. Pharmaceutical and medical products that we distribute might not conform to specifications or perform as intended. We distribute pharmaceutical, medical, and other FDA-regulated products manufactured by third parties and by our private label businesses, including medications that may be temperature sensitive or have limited shelf lives. Our systems and procedures are designed to maintain the safety and efficacy of the products throughout the sourcing and distribution process. Issues affecting product safety or efficacy can arise from manufacturing, storing, distributing, dispensing, or using products, and can result in adverse consequences such as safety alerts, seizures, bans, recalls, withdrawals or other market action, suspensions, and other regulatory actions and sanctions, civil lawsuits, increased costs, disruptions, delays, and reputational damage. Any of these types of issues or results might have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, our business operations, and our financial position or results of operations. We might not realize expected benefits from business process initiatives. From time to time, we implement restructuring, cost reduction, or other business process initiatives that result in significant charges and expenses. These initiatives might fail to achieve our desired objectives or have unintended consequences such as distraction of our management and employees, business disruption, attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce, inability to attract or retain key personnel and reduced employee productivity. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. We might be unable to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions or other strategic transactions, and our investments in businesses may not perform as we expect. Our growth strategy includes consummating acquisitions, investments, or other strategic transactions that either expand or complement our business. To fund these strategic transactions, we may require financing that may not be available on acceptable terms. We may not receive governmental approvals needed to complete proposed transactions, or such approvals may be subject to delays or conditions that reduce transaction benefits. Achieving the desired outcomes of these strategic transactions involves significant risks including: diverting management’s attention from other business operations or priorities; challenges with assimilating the acquired businesses, such as integration of operations, systems, and technologies; failure or delay in realizing operating synergies; difficulty retaining key acquired company personnel; unanticipated accounting or financial systems issues with the acquired business, which might affect our internal controls over financial reporting; disputes with the sellers of acquired businesses; unanticipated compliance issues in the acquired business; unknown or unanticipated cybersecurity issues, as well as heightened vulnerabilities during integration; challenges retaining customers of the acquired business; unanticipated expenses or charges to earnings, including depreciation and amortization or potential impairment charges; risks of known and unknown assumed liabilities in the acquired business; failure of an acquired business or investment to perform as projected in the near or long term; and changes in laws or their interpretation or application with respect to an acquired business or investment, such as potential restrictions on certain healthcare ownership structures or arrangements (see “Government Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I above). Certain of these factors at times have negatively affected, and any of these factors could in the future negatively affect, our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, investment, or other strategic transaction. Any of the foregoing risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION From time to time we are adversely impacted by delays or other difficulties with divestitures. When we decide to sell or otherwise divest assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. After the disposition, we might experience greater dissynergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue or profit might be larger than we expected. We might have difficulties with pre-closing conditions such as governmental approvals, which could delay or prevent the divestiture. We might have financial exposure in a divested business, such as through minority equity ownership, financial or performance guarantees, indemnities, or other obligations, such that conditions outside of our control might negate the expected benefits of the disposition. Any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of a divestiture and might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. Our planned separation of Medical-Surgical Solutions is contingent upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, may not be completed on the currently contemplated terms or timeline, or at all, and, if completed, may not achieve the intended financial and strategic benefits. The Company intends to separate the Medical-Surgical Solutions segment into an independent company (“NewCo”). The separation is expected to be effected, ultimately, through a split-off or spin-off, or a combination of both (the “Exit”), intended to qualify as a tax-free transaction to the Company and its stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Completion of the planned separation will be subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, including, among others: the receipt of a favorable opinion from outside legal counsel as to the tax-free nature of the Exit; the effectiveness of a registration statement to be filed with the SEC; the receipt of other governmental approvals; the finalization of the NewCo capital structure; and the approval of our Board of Directors. The planned separation is complex in nature, and unanticipated business, market, governmental, or other developments could delay or prevent completion of the separation or cause the separation to occur on less favorable terms. We face certain risks in connection with the separation, including, among others: the diversion of management’s attention from other business operations and priorities; a determination by the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or any court that the Exit (or any aspect thereof) is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes; and challenges in maintaining transitional services and operational continuity between the Company and NewCo, in establishing or maintaining standalone functions and infrastructure at NewCo, or in retaining existing or attracting new business and operational relationships, including with customers, suppliers, and employees. There can be no assurance that the separation, if completed, will achieve the intended financial and strategic benefits (which are based on a number of assumptions, some or all of which may prove incorrect) or provide greater value to our stockholders than is currently reflected in our stock price, or that the dissynergies from the separation will not be greater than expected. Any of these factors could negatively affect our stock price or have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and on our financial condition or results of operations. We might not realize the expected tax treatment from our split-off of Change Healthcare. On March 10, 2020, the Company completed a separation of its interest in Change Healthcare LLC (“Change Healthcare JV”). The divestiture was effected through the split-off of PF2 SpinCo, Inc. (“SpinCo”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company that held all of the Company’s interest in the Change Healthcare JV, to certain of the Company’s stockholders through an exchange offer (the “Exchange Offer”), followed by a merger of SpinCo with and into Change Healthcare Inc. (“Change”), with Change surviving the merger (the “Merger” and, together with the Exchange Offer, the “Transactions”). The Company received an opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that the Transactions qualified as generally tax-free transactions to the Company and its stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. An opinion of legal counsel is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the intended tax-free treatment of the Transactions. In addition, the opinion could not be relied upon if certain assumptions, representations, and undertakings upon which the opinion was based are materially inaccurate or incomplete, or are violated in any material respect. If the intended tax-free treatment of the Transactions is not sustained, the Company and its stockholders who participated in the Transactions may be required to pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes. In connection with the Transactions, the Company, SpinCo, Change, and the Change Healthcare JV entered into the Tax Matters Agreement, which governs their respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax contests, and other tax sharing regarding U.S. federal, state, and local, and non-U.S. taxes, other tax matters, and related tax returns. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, Change is required to indemnify the Company if the Transactions become taxable as a result of certain actions by Change or SpinCo, or as a result of certain changes in ownership of the stock of Change after the Merger. If Change does not honor its obligations to indemnify the Company, or if the Transactions fail to qualify for the intended tax-free treatment for reasons not related to a disqualifying action by Change or SpinCo, the resulting tax to the Company could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION We might be adversely impacted by outsourcing or similar third-party relationships. We rely on third parties to perform certain business and administrative functions for us. We might not adequately develop, implement, and monitor these outsourced service providers, and we might not realize expected cost savings or other benefits. Third-party service providers experience cybersecurity incidents and other disruptions and can fail to perform their obligations due to various causes, which might cause us to incur operational difficulties, additional compliance requirements, or increased costs related to outsourced services. For example, our ability to use outsourcing resources in certain jurisdictions might be limited by legislative action or customer contracts, with the result that the work must be performed at greater expense or we may be subject to sanctions for non-compliance. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, our business operations, and our financial position or results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in achieving our strategic growth objectives. Our business strategy as a diversified healthcare services company includes investing, organically and inorganically, to further build an integrated oncology and multispecialty care platform and expand our biopharma services business. Our ability to grow those businesses will depend, among other things, on our: hiring and retaining talented individuals with necessary knowledge and skills; acquiring, developing, and implementing new technologies and capabilities, including AI; establishing new offerings and pivoting or enhancing existing ones; successfully identifying, completing, and realizing the anticipated benefits of strategic transactions; forming and expanding business relationships; anticipating the needs of our customers; and successfully competing against providers of similar services. New technologies, such as AI, may not result in the benefits we anticipate, may not enable us to keep pace with our competitors and the rapidly evolving technological landscape, and may require us to expend significant resources, including to maintain our capabilities. We have increased, and expect to continue to increase, our use of AI technology, which could heighten these risks. Additionally, some of our historical competitors and a growing number of new competitive entrants have more experience than we do in enabling technologies such as data analytics, machine learning, or AI. As described in “Government Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I above, we also face certain regulatory risks in executing our growth strategy, including potential laws that place restrictions on certain healthcare ownership structures or arrangements. We may not achieve our desired return on our investments through our growth strategy, or acceptable sales and profitability in our strategic growth areas. Any of the foregoing risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business prospects and our financial position or results of operations. We are impacted by customer purchase reductions, contract non-renewals, payment defaults, and bankruptcies. Some of our customers from time to time reduce the amounts they purchase from us, do not renew their purchase contracts with us, renew their purchase contracts at less favorable terms, delay or default on their payments to us, or avoid payments to us through bankruptcy proceedings. At March 31, 2026, sales to our largest customer represented approximately 24% of our total consolidated revenues and approximately 21% of our total trade receivables, and those of our ten largest customers combined accounted for approximately 73% of our consolidated revenues and approximately 43% of our trade receivables. Refer to “Other Information about the Business” in Item 1 of Part I above for additional details on our customers. One or more customer purchase reductions, contract non-renewals, renewals at less favorable terms, payment defaults, or bankruptcies might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION Our contracts with governmental entities involve future funding and compliance risks. Our contracts with governmental entities are subject to risks such as lack of funding and compliance with unique requirements. For example, government contract purchase obligations are typically subject to the availability of funding, which may be eliminated or reduced. In addition, the future volume of products or services purchased by a government customer is often uncertain. Our government contracts might not be renewed or might be terminated for convenience with little prior notice. They might be modified with less favorable terms. Government contracts typically expose us to higher potential liability than do other types of contracts. In addition, government contracts typically are subject to procurement laws that include socio-economic, employment practices, environmental protection, recordkeeping and accounting, and other requirements. For example, our contracts with the U.S. government generally require us to comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, Procurement Integrity Act, Buy American Act, Trade Agreements Act, and other laws and requirements. New or revised laws, requirements, and policies, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, requirements, and policies, could adversely affect our business and competitiveness and increase our compliance costs. We are subject to government audits, investigations, and oversight proceedings. Governmental agencies routinely review and audit government contractors to determine whether they are complying with contractual and legal requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, or we fail an audit, we may be subject to various sanctions such as monetary damages, criminal and civil penalties, contract delays or terminations, and suspension or debarment from government contract work. These requirements complicate our business and increase our compliance burden. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our reputation and might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. We might be harmed by changes in our relationships or contracts with suppliers. We attempt to structure our distribution agreements with manufacturers to ensure that we are appropriately and predictably compensated for the services we provide. Certain distribution agreements with manufacturers include product price inflation as a component of our consideration, and we cannot control the frequency or magnitude of price changes. Laws limiting or reducing product prices, and changes to manufacturers’ pricing policies or practices as a result of changing laws, impact our distribution agreements or arrangements. We might be unable to renew or modify distribution agreements with manufacturers in a timely and favorable manner. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. We might infringe intellectual property rights or our intellectual property protections might be inadequate. We believe that our products and services do not infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, but third parties have asserted infringement claims against us and may do so in the future. If a court were to hold that we infringed other’s rights, we might be required to pay substantial damages, develop non-infringing products or services, obtain a license, stop selling or using the infringing products or services, or incur other sanctions. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright, and trademark laws, nondisclosure obligations, and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights in our products and solutions. We might initiate costly and time-consuming litigation to protect our trade secrets, to enforce our patent, copyright, and trademark rights, and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Our intellectual property protection efforts might be inadequate to protect our rights. Our competitors might develop non-infringing products or services equivalent or superior to ours. Our development and use of AI technologies may result in new or enhanced risks, including the misappropriation of proprietary and confidential inputs or infringement of third-party rights as well as uncertainties over the ownership of AI-generated outputs. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. Our use of third-party data is subject to risks and limitations that could impede the growth of our data services business. We attempt to structure our processes to satisfy contractual and other operative data usage rights and limitations associated with customers, industry partners, and other third-party data flowing through our businesses. These rights and limitations can apply to confidential commercial data and personal data provided to us. Failure to satisfy these data usage rights and limitations can lead to legal claims such as contractual breaches or data protection and privacy law violations. If a court were to hold that our use of data is not consistent with our rights and limitations, we might be required to pay substantial damages; we might need to stop using, sharing, and/or selling certain products and services; or we might incur other financial, legal, and/or reputational consequences. In addition, we might be unable to negotiate and/or obtain at an acceptable cost the data usage rights needed to advance our data strategy growth and AI-related objectives. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION We might be unable to successfully recruit and retain qualified employees. Our ability to attract, engage, develop, and retain qualified and experienced employees, including key executives and other talent, is essential for us to meet our objectives. We compete with many other businesses to attract and retain employees. Competition among potential employers results in increased salaries, benefits, or other employee-related costs, or in our failure to recruit and retain employees. We may experience loss of key personnel, including unexpectedly. Although we must adequately plan for timely succession of key management roles, our succession plans might not be effective, and employees might not successfully transition into new roles. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. Industry and Economic Risks We might be adversely impacted by healthcare reform such as changes in pricing and reimbursement models. Many of our products and services are designed to function within the structure of current healthcare financing and reimbursement systems. The healthcare industry and related government programs continue to change. Some of these changes increase our risks and create uncertainties for our business. For example, certain changes in reimbursement methodologies (including government rates) for pharmaceuticals, medical treatments, and related services reduce profit margins for us and our customers and impose new legal requirements on healthcare providers. Those changes have included cuts in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels, changes in the bases for payments, shifts from fee-for-service pricing towards value-based payments and risk-sharing models, and increases in the use of managed care. As described under “Healthcare Program Regulation” in Item 1 of Part I above, our business is subject to a broad range of recent and ongoing reform efforts, and challenges to those efforts, that could affect healthcare program access and spending, pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement, and distribution economics. These include: the IRA; the OBBBA; Executive Order 14297; CMS rulemaking on BFSFs and proposed rebate models; 340B program litigation and developments; and state drug pricing legislation. Additionally, the pace and volume of healthcare reform initiatives and changes heighten the risks for our business. There is substantial uncertainty about the likelihood, timing, and results of these healthcare reform efforts and challenges, and their implementation or outcome might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. We are adversely impacted by competition and industry consolidation. Our businesses face a highly competitive global environment with strong competition from international, national, regional, and local full-line, short-line, and specialty distributors, service merchandisers, self-warehousing chain drug stores, manufacturers engaged in direct distribution, third-party logistics companies, and large payer organizations. In addition, our businesses face competition from various other service providers and from pharmaceutical and other healthcare manufacturers as well as other potential customers, which may from time to time decide to develop, for their own internal needs, supply management capabilities that might otherwise be provided by our businesses. We also may face competition from companies that move faster to adopt emerging technologies. Due to consolidation, a few large suppliers control a significant share of the pharmaceuticals market. This concentration reduces our ability to negotiate favorable terms with suppliers and causes us to depend on a smaller number of suppliers. Many of our customers, including healthcare organizations, have consolidated or joined group purchasing organizations and have greater power to negotiate favorable prices. Consolidation by our customers, suppliers, and competitors might reduce the number of market participants and give the remaining enterprises greater bargaining power, which might lead to erosion in our profit margin. Consolidation might increase counterparty credit risk because credit purchases increase for fewer market participants. Consolidation also might affect our ability to achieve our growth objectives through acquisitions and other strategic transactions. These competitive pressures and industry consolidation might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION From time to time we have difficulties in sourcing or selling products due to a variety of causes and are adversely impacted by disruptions or changes in product supply. We rely on third parties for the supply of pharmaceutical and other products, and our operations are subject to our suppliers’ continued ability to supply the products that we require. From time to time, we experience difficulties and delays in sourcing and selling products due to a variety of causes that result in suppliers’ failure to satisfy production demand. Among these causes are suppliers’ challenges in complying with legal requirements (including product and production quality standards), access to raw materials, inputs, and finished goods, manufacturing shutdowns, and operational and systems difficulties. Supply disruptions also arise from other factors beyond our control, such as product rationalization; government actions or policies (including trade sanctions, tariffs and other trade restrictions, as well as the requisition, diversion, or allocation of inventory); shifts in customer or societal demand for products; labor disputes or shortages; ethical sourcing issues; supplier financial distress; natural disasters and weather-related events; civil unrest; military conflicts; and epidemics or pandemics. In these types of situations, our alternative sourcing efforts are not always fully successful. We might experience extended delays or incur higher sourcing costs or suffer harm to our customer relationships and reputation. Furthermore, changes in the healthcare industry’s or our suppliers’ pricing, selling, inventory, distribution, or supply policies or practices could significantly reduce our revenues and net income. Any of these disruptions or changes might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. We are adversely impacted as a result of our distribution of generic pharmaceuticals. Our generic pharmaceuticals distribution business is subject to both product availability and pricing risks. We might experience disruptions in our supply of generic pharmaceuticals. We have been impacted when, due to regulatory and supply chain challenges, our supplier partners are not able to deliver products that we have committed to source from them. Input cost increases, product discontinuations, and market shortages could result in ClarusONE being unsuccessful in sourcing product to meet the needs of our customers, or could negatively impact our margin. Generic drug manufacturers offer a generic version of branded pharmaceuticals and routinely challenge the validity or enforceability of branded pharmaceutical patents in order to launch the drug pre- or post-loss of exclusivity. Patent holders have asserted infringement claims against us for distributing those generic versions they believed to have infringed a patent, and the generic drug manufacturers may not fully indemnify us against such claims. These risks and outcomes, as well as changes in the nature, frequency, or magnitude of generic pharmaceutical launches, might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. We are adversely impacted by changes in the economic environments in which we operate, including from inflation, an economic slowdown, a recession, or fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Inflationary conditions result in increased costs associated with our normal business operations and decreased levels of consumer commercial spending and, to the extent we are not able to offset such cost increases from our suppliers, increase the costs which we incur to purchase inventories and services. Inflationary pressure is increased by factors such as supply chain disruptions, labor market tightness, actual or announced tariffs, government policies, interest rate changes, and foreign exchange rate changes. An economic slowdown or a recession could also reduce the prices our customers are able or willing to pay for our products and services and reduce the volume of their purchases. In addition to rising inflation, rising interest rates, the impact of banking failures or perceived failures and related contagion, consumer sentiment, political circumstances, military conflicts, and civil unrest may contribute to recessionary pressure. Our non-U.S. operations, import and export of products sold in currencies other than U.S. dollar (non-USD), non-USD intercompany loans, and our substantial international net assets also expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk. Changes in the economic environments in which we operate might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. Changes affecting capital and credit markets might impede access to credit, increase borrowing costs, and disrupt banking services for us and our customers and suppliers and might impair the financial soundness of our customers and suppliers. Volatility and disruption in global capital and credit markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of certain financial institutions, reduced lending activity by financial institutions, reduced creditworthiness of our customers or suppliers, or decreased liquidity and increased costs in the commercial paper market, might adversely affect the borrowing ability and cost of borrowing for us and our customers and suppliers. Credit rating agencies regularly review our credit and rate our outstanding debt; and any downgrades in our credit ratings might limit our access to public debt markets, decrease the willingness of financial institutions to lend to us, lead to more restrictive debt covenants, increase our borrowing costs, and adversely affect our earnings. We generally sell our products and services under short-term unsecured credit arrangements. An adverse change in general or entity - specific economic conditions or access to capital might cause our customers to reduce their purchases from 24 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION us, or delay payments, or fail to pay amounts, owed to us. Suppliers might increase their prices, reduce their output, or change their terms of sale due to limited availability of credit. Suppliers might be unable to make payments due to us for fees, returned products, or incentives. Interest rate increases or changes in capital market conditions, including as a result of macroeconomic events, might impede our or our customers’ or suppliers’ ability or cost to obtain credit. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. We might be adversely impacted by tax legislation or challenges to our tax positions. We are subject to the tax laws in the U.S. at the federal, state, and local government levels and to the tax laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate or sell products or services. Tax laws might change in ways that adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate, and cash flow. The tax laws are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. For example, the European Union and other countries (including countries in which we operate) have committed to enacting changes to numerous long-standing tax principles impacting how large multinational enterprises are taxed. In particular, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Pillar Two initiative introduces a 15% global minimum tax applied on a country-by-country basis which many jurisdictions have enacted or committed to enact. Additionally, the OBBBA introduced modifications to various U.S. federal tax provisions. While we evaluated the implications of these measures and concluded that they are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, their ultimate impact may differ from our estimates. We are subject to tax examinations in various jurisdictions that might assess additional tax liabilities against us. Our tax reporting positions are sometimes challenged by relevant tax authorities, we might incur significant expense in our efforts to defend those challenges, and we might be unsuccessful in those efforts. Developments in examinations and challenges might materially change our provision for taxes in the affected periods and might differ materially from our historical tax accruals. Any of these risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations, our cash flows, and our financial position or results of operations. General Risks Conditions and events outside of our control, such as widespread public health issues, natural disasters, and geopolitical factors adversely impact our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. From time to time we are adversely affected by conditions and events outside of our control, including: widespread public health issues such as epidemic or pandemic infectious diseases; natural disasters and other catastrophic events such as earthquakes, floods, or severe weather; and geopolitical factors such as terrorism, military conflicts, civil unrest, political circumstances (including changes in international relations), changes or uncertainty in government policies (including with respect to U.S. or international trade), actual or announced tariffs or other trade restrictions, government shutdowns, or changes in laws or their interpretation. These conditions and events can disrupt operations for us, our suppliers, our vendors, and our customers, as well as impair product manufacturing, supply, and transport availability and cost in unpredictable ways that depend on highly uncertain future developments. They might affect consumer confidence levels and spending or the availability of certain goods, commodities, raw materials, and other inputs. In response to these types of conditions and events, we might seek alternate sources for product supply, incur additional sourcing or distribution costs, suspend operations, implement extraordinary procedures, or suffer consequences that are unexpected and difficult to mitigate. For example, the trade environment remains highly dynamic and uncertain, and trade policies may be interrelated with other government initiatives. Imposed or threatened tariffs or other trade restrictions might require us to incur substantial additional sourcing costs, raise prices on certain products, or seek alternate supply sources. If we are unable to effectively manage or offset the impact of tariffs or other trade restrictions, or find alternate sources of supply, we might be competitively disadvantaged or experience reduced profit margins or supply disruptions. Further, we might suffer harm to our customer relationships. Any of the foregoing risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. We may be adversely affected by global climate change or by regulatory or market responses to such change. The long-term effects of climate change are difficult to predict and may be widespread. The impacts may include physical risks (such as rising sea levels or frequency and severity of extreme weather conditions), social and human effects (such as population dislocations or harm to health and well-being), compliance costs and transition risks (such as regulatory or technology changes), costs for critical services (such as transportation costs), and other adverse effects. The effects could impair, for example, the availability and cost of certain products, commodities, transportation, and energy (including utilities), which in turn may impact our ability to procure goods or services, and transport those goods, required for the operation of our business at the quantities and levels we require. We bear losses incurred as a result of, for example, physical damage to or destruction of our facilities (such as distribution or fulfillment centers), loss or spoilage of inventory due to unusual ambient 25 Table of Contents Item 1A Index McKESSON CORPORATION temperatures, and business interruption due to weather events that may be attributable to climate change. These risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operation. Evolving expectations and regulatory requirements related to governance and sustainability matters may damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Investors, regulators, employees, customers, and other stakeholders continue to focus on companies’ governance and sustainability (“G&S”) practices and policies, including those related to human capital management, climate change, environmental responsibility, and social impact. Given the varied and at times divergent views of different stakeholder groups, any action or inaction by us with respect to G&S matters may be perceived negatively by some stakeholders. Furthermore, the G&S regulatory landscape is evolving and uncertain. New or revised laws and policies, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and policies, could increase our compliance costs and expose us to legal risks. From time to time, we make statements regarding our sustainability goals. Although we intend to meet these goals, we may be required to expend significant resources to do so, which could impose costs on us. In addition, we could be criticized for the scope or nature of these goals, or for any revisions to our goals. Moreover, we may determine that it is in the best interests of the Company and our stockholders to prioritize other business investments over the achievement of our sustainability goals based on various factors such as our business strategy, technological and regulatory developments, industry standards, and input or pressure from stakeholders. If our G&S practices or outcomes do not align with stakeholder expectations or evolving regulatory requirements, our reputation, stock price, ability to access capital markets, and employee recruitment and retention efforts might be negatively affected. We also could face litigation or government action. Any of the foregoing risks might have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws could limit our stockholders’ ability to choose their preferred judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless the Corporation consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for specified legal actions is the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or the United States District Court for the District of Delaware if the Court of Chancery does not have or declines to accept jurisdiction (collectively, “Delaware Courts”). Current and former stockholders are deemed to have consented to the personal jurisdiction of the Delaware Courts in connection with any action to enforce that exclusive forum provision and to service of process in any such action. These provisions of the bylaws are not a waiver of, and do not relieve anyone of duties to comply with, federal securities laws including those specifying the exclusive jurisdiction of federal courts under the Exchange Act and concurrent jurisdiction of federal and state courts under the Securities Act. To the extent that these provisions of the bylaws limit a current or former stockholder’s ability to select a judicial forum other than the Delaware Courts, they might discourage the specified legal actions, might cause current or former stockholders to incur additional litigation-related expenses, and might result in outcomes unfavorable to current or former stockholders. A court might determine that these provisions of the bylaws are inapplicable or unenforceable in any particular action, in which case we may incur additional litigation related expenses in such action, and the action may result in outcomes unfavorable to us, which could have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, our business operations, and our financial position or results of operations.