{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":843417,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
Item 3. Key Information. ” Sony’s consolidated operating results are subject to foreign currency rate fluctuations primarily due to different currency composition of revenue and costs. In the G&NS segment, a significant proportion of costs is incurred in U.S. dollars, but sales are recorded in Japanese yen, U.S. dollars or euros. As a result, the yen appreciation against the U.S. dollar has a positive impact on operating income while the yen appreciation against the euro has a negative impact. In the ET&S segment, yen appreciation against the U.S. dollar has a positive impact on operating income, mainly due to a high proportion of manufacturing and other costs for certain key products being incurred in U.S. dollars. Meanwhile, a large portion of sales for certain key products is in emerging markets, resulting in yen appreciation against the currencies of emerging markets having a negative impact on operating profit in the ET&S segment. In the I&SS segment, a significant proportion of sales contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars, but manufacturing operations are located in Japan, and, therefore, yen appreciation against the U.S. dollar has a significantly negative impact on operating income. In order to reduce the risk caused by foreign exchange rate fluctuations, Sony employs derivatives, including foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign currency option contracts, in accordance with a consistent risk management strategy. Such derivatives are used primarily to mitigate the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows generated or anticipated by Sony’s transactions and accounts receivable and payable denominated in foreign currencies. Sony Global Treasury Services Plc (“SGTS”) in the U.K. provides integrated treasury services for Sony Group Corporation, its subsidiaries, and affiliated companies. Sony’s policy is that Sony Group Corporation and all subsidiaries with foreign exchange exposures should enter into commitments with SGTS to hedge their - 44 - Table of Contents exposures. Sony Group Corporation and most of its subsidiaries utilize SGTS for this purpose. Sony’s policy of concentrating its foreign exchange exposures means that SGTS and Sony Group Corporation hedge most of the net foreign exchange exposure within the Sony group. Sony has a policy on the use of derivatives whereby, in principle, SGTS should centrally deal with and manage derivatives with financial institutions for risk management purposes. SGTS enters into foreign exchange transactions with creditworthy third-party financial institutions. Most of these transactions are entered into to address projected exposures before the actual export and import transactions take place. In general, SGTS hedges the projected exposures for a period of the current month or one month before the actual transactions take place. Sony enters into foreign exchange transactions with financial institutions primarily for hedging purposes and does not use these derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are initially recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings. Foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign currency option contracts and other derivatives that do not qualify as hedges are marked-to-market with changes in value recognized in financial income and expenses. The net fair value of all the foreign exchange derivative contracts as of March 31, 2025 and 2026 was a liability of 0.5 billion yen and 7.6 billion yen, respectively. Refer to Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. Note: Sales on a Constant Currency Basis and the Impact of Foreign Exchange Rate Fluctuations The descriptions of sales on a constant currency basis reflect sales calculated by applying the yen’s monthly average exchange rates from the previous fiscal year to local currency-denominated monthly sales in the current fiscal year. For SME and SMP in the Music segment, and in the Pictures segment, the constant currency amounts are calculated by applying the monthly average U.S. dollar / yen exchange rates after aggregation on a U.S. dollar basis. Results for the Pictures segment are described on a U.S. dollar basis as the Pictures segment reflects the operations of SPE, a U.S.-based operation that aggregates the results of its worldwide subsidiaries in U.S. dollars. The impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on sales is calculated by applying the change in the yen’s periodic weighted average exchange rate for the previous fiscal year from the current fiscal year to the major transactional currencies in which the sales are denominated. The impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on operating income (loss) is calculated by subtracting from the impact on sales the impact on cost of sales and SGA expenses calculated by applying the same major transactional currencies calculation process to cost of sales and SGA expenses as for the impact on sales. The impact of foreign exchange hedging transactions entered into by the I&SS segment is included in the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on sales and operating income (loss) for that segment. This information is not a substitute for Sony’s consolidated financial statements measured in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards. However, Sony believes that these disclosures provide additional useful analytical information to investors regarding the operating performance of Sony. Assets, Liabilities and Equity Sony’s consolidated assets, liabilities and equity as of the end of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2026 are as follows. Total assets amounted to 15 trillion 683.5 billion yen, a decrease of 19 trillion 609.7 billion yen compared with the end of the previous fiscal year. Total liabilities amounted to 7 trillion 169.9 billion yen, a decrease of 19 trillion 613.1 billion yen compared with the end of the previous fiscal year. Total equity amounted to 8 trillion 513.6 billion yen, an increase of 3.4 billion yen compared with the end of the previous fiscal year. The decreases in assets and liabilities were primarily attributable to the deconsolidation of SFGI, which operates the Financial Services business, in connection with the execution of the Partial Spin-off of the Financial Services business during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2026. Cash Flows Operating Activities: A net cash inflow of 1 trillion 945.6 billion yen (376.1 billion yen decrease year-on-year) Continuing operations: A net cash inflow of 1 trillion 966.3 billion yen (5.1 billion yen decrease year-on-year) (–) Smaller decrease in trade receivables and contract assets (–) Smaller decrease in inventories - 45 - Table of Contents (–) Smaller increase in trade payables (+) Increase in income before income taxes after taking into account non-cash adjustments (including depreciation and amortization, including amortization of contract costs, other operating (income) expense, gain on securities, net, and share of loss of investments accounted for using the equity method, net of dividends) Investing Activities: A net cash outflow of 1 trillion 970.5 billion yen (1 trillion 40.4 billion yen increase year-on-year) Continuing operations: A net cash outflow of 784.2 billion yen (119.0 billion yen decrease year-on-year) (+) Decrease in payments for purchases of property, plant and equipment (+) Decrease in payments for purchases of businesses and other (–) Increase in payments for investments and advances Discontinued operations: A net cash outflow of 1 trillion 186.3 billion yen (1 trillion 159.4 billion yen increase year-on-year) (–) Due to the exclusion from consolidation of SFGI, which operates the Financial Services business, in connection with the execution of the Partial Spin-off of the Financial Services business during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2026 Financing Activities: A net cash outflow of 842.8 billion yen (544.5 billion yen increase year-on-year) Continuing operations: A net cash outflow of 833.5 billion yen (556.2 billion yen increase year-on-year) (–) Increase in payments for the purchase of treasury stock (–) Decrease in capital contributions from non-controlling interests (–) Decrease in proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt Total outstanding balance of cash and cash equivalents accounting for the effect of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of March 31, 2026: 2 trillion 208.9 billion yen, a decrease of 772.1 billion yen as compared to the balance as of March 31, 2025 - 46 - Table of Contents B. Liquidity and Capital Resources The description below covers basic financial policy and figures for Sony’s consolidated operations except for certain subsidiaries, which secure liquidity on their own. Liquidity Management and Market Access An important financial objective of Sony is to maintain the strength of its financial condition, while securing adequate liquidity for business activities. Sony defines its liquidity sources as the amount of cash and cash equivalents (“cash balance”) (excluding restrictions on capital transfers mainly due to national regulations) and the unused amount of committed lines of credit. Funding requirements that arise from maintaining liquidity are principally covered by cash flow from operating and investing activities (including asset sales) and by the available cash balance; however, Sony also raises funds as needed from financial and capital markets through means such as corporate bonds, CP and bank loans. Sony Group Corporation, SGTS and Sony Capital Corporation (“SCC”), a finance subsidiary in the U.S., maintain CP programs with access to the Japanese, U.S. and European CP markets. The borrowing limits under these CP programs, translated into yen, were 1 trillion 299.3 billion yen in total for Sony Group Corporation, SGTS and SCC as of March 31, 2026. There were no amounts outstanding under the CP programs as of March 31, 2026. If disruption and volatility occur in financial and capital markets and Sony becomes unable to raise sufficient funds from these sources, Sony may also draw down funds from contractually committed lines of credit from various financial institutions. Sony has a total, translated into yen, of 789.6 billion yen in unused committed lines of credit, as of March 31, 2026. Details of those committed lines of credit are: a 350.0 billion yen committed line of credit contracted with a syndicate of Japanese banks, a 1.7 billion U.S. dollar multi-currency committed line of credit also contracted with a syndicate of Japanese banks and a 1.05 billion U.S. dollar multi-currency committed line of credit contracted with a syndicate of foreign banks. Sony currently believes that it can sustain sufficient liquidity through access to committed lines of credit with financial institutions, together with its available cash balance, even in the event that financial and capital markets become illiquid. Sony considers one of management’s top priorities to be the maintenance of stable and appropriate credit ratings in order to ensure financial flexibility for liquidity and capital management and continued adequate access to sufficient funding resources in the financial and capital markets. However, in the event of a downgrade in Sony’s credit ratings, there are no financial covenants in any of Sony’s material financial agreements with financial institutions that would cause an acceleration of the obligation. Even though the cost of borrowing for some committed lines of credit could change according to Sony’s credit ratings, there are no financial covenants that would cause any impairment on the ability to draw down on unused facilities. Cash Management Sony manages its global cash management activities primarily through Sony Group Corporation in Japan, SCC in the U.S. and SGTS in other regions. The excess or shortage of cash at most of Sony’s subsidiaries is invested or funded by Sony Group Corporation, SGTS and SCC on a net basis, although Sony recognizes that fund transfers are limited in certain countries and geographic areas due to restrictions on capital transactions. In order to pursue more efficient cash management, cash surpluses among Sony’s subsidiaries are deposited with Sony Group Corporation, SGTS and SCC, and cash shortfalls among subsidiaries are covered by loans through Sony Group Corporation, SGTS and SCC, so that Sony can make use of excess cash balances and reduce third-party borrowings. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intercompany transfer of funds, Sony’s intent is that cash balances remain outside of Sony Group Corporation, SGTS and SCC and that Sony meets its liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. Sony does not expect restrictions of capital transactions on amounts held outside of Japan to have a material effect on Sony’s overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. For further information about Sony’s views regarding utilization of cash flow from operating activities generated within the Sony Group for strategic investments, shareholder returns and as cash on hand, refer to “ Issues Facing Sony and Management’s Response to those Issues : Fifth Mid-Range Plan — Financial Targets, Capital Allocation and their Progress” in Item 5.D. - 47 - Table of Contents Off-balance Sheet Transactions Sony has certain off-balance sheet transactions that provide liquidity, capital resources and/or credit risk support. These transactions in which Sony has relinquished control of trade receivables are accounted for as sales. Contractual Obligations, Commitments, and Contingent Liabilities Sony’s contractual obligations, commitments and contingent liabilities are summarized as follows: Short-term borrowings and long-term debt Refer to Note 6 and Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements. Loan commitments, purchase commitments and litigation Refer to Note 32 of the consolidated financial statements. C. Research and Development Under its Purpose to “fill the world with emotion (Kando) through the power of creativity and technology,” Sony has established the “Creative Entertainment Vision” as its long-term vision for where it wants to be in 10 years. Under this vision, Sony develops and provides technologies and solutions for creators. To realize the “Creative Entertainment Vision,” R&D in the Sony Group is aimed at strengthening the technologies and platforms that support IP creation, IP cultivation and IP expansion. As part of these efforts, Sony is promoting the application of R&D results in its businesses by building and utilizing a technological portfolio based on business demands. In addition, Sony is promoting a system that allows technology professionals with diverse backgrounds and values to collaborate across business units, enabling them to understand and share the latest technological trends and work together across the Group. Sony aims to promote the use of AI, which has continued to evolve in recent years, based on the view that it can enhance human capabilities and increase the value of Sony’s businesses. In addition to supporting the creative activities of creators, Sony also places importance on protecting creators’ rights and ensuring the proper use of intellectual property. To this end, Sony is advancing R&D of technologies that contribute to preventing copyright infringement and misuse, such as the detection of unauthorized music. Sony works to support diverse, outstanding research talent, which is necessary for technological innovation. As part of this effort, together with the world’s leading science journal Nature , Sony launched the “Sony Women in Technology Award with Nature ” in March 2024 to annually recognize next-generation women researchers whose work is driving positive impact on the planet and society. The second winners of the award were announced in February 2026, and were honored at an award ceremony held in Tokyo. Sony’s R&D organizations carry out various R&D activities in collaboration with multiple R&D organizations located both inside and outside of Japan, utilizing the different characteristics and strengths of each area. In addition to aiming to acquire excellent local R&D personnel, Sony will strive to strengthen collaboration with external creators and academia, without limiting itself within its own organization. R&D costs for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2026 increased 27.4 billion yen (3.7%) year-on-year to 762.0 billion yen. The ratio of R&D costs to sales from continuing operations was 6.1%, unchanged from the previous fiscal year. - 48 - Table of Contents The following table shows a breakdown of R&D costs for each business segment in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2025 and 2026. Fiscal year ended March 31 2025 2026 (Yen in billions) R&D costs G&NS 279.2 316.1 ET&S 138.9 138.0 I&SS 228.4 238.5 Note: Due to the reorganization of Sony’s technology-related organizations in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2025, the amount of R&D costs for Sony Group Corporation’s R&D organization (“Corporate R&D”) has become immaterial. Therefore, from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2025, R&D costs for Corporate R&D are not presented separately. D. Trend Information This section contains forward-looking statements about the possible future performance of Sony and should be read in light of the cautionary statement on that subject, which appears on the inside front cover page and applies to this entire document. Issues Facing Sony and Management’s Response to those Issues Sony has a wide range of businesses globally. Changes in the global landscape, including increasing uncertainty regarding the situations in Ukraine and Russia and in the Middle East, increased geopolitical risk including relations between the U.S. and China, the rise of new technologies such as AI, and responses to global environmental challenges and social division, are causing major changes in the environment surrounding Sony’s businesses. Sony has responded swiftly to changes in the business environment and worked to strengthen the profit structure of each of its businesses, while continuing to prioritize management with a long-term view, with the goal of enhancing the corporate value of the entire Sony Group. On May 8, 2026, Sony Group Corporation held its Corporate Strategy and Earnings Announcement Presentation. President and CEO, Hiroki Totoki, presented an update on Sony’s businesses, corporate priorities and direction as the company enters the final fiscal year of the fifth mid-range plan. Sony has set forth its long-term “Creative Entertainment Vision,” which articulates the direction for the evolution of its businesses centered on entertainment, IP, content creation, and real-time creation technologies, and aims to leverage the power of technology to empower creators, deliver new experiences to fans across both physical and digital spaces and maximize the value of IP. At the beginning of the presentation, Hiroki Totoki reviewed the progress toward realizing this long-term vision, along with key topics across each business. He also noted that anime is an important growth sector for Sony, introducing various initiatives centered on anime, and announcing that the DTC anime platform Crunchyroll has surpassed 21 million subscribers as of the end of March 2026. He then introduced AI as one of the most important themes across the Sony Group businesses to unlock new value creation and to capture new opportunities for growth for its entertainment businesses. He emphasized that “human creativity must remain at the center,” and stated that “AI is not a replacement for artists or creators.” He then presented examples of how AI is being utilized across Sony’s businesses and welcomed Hideaki Nishino, President and CEO of Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC, to share examples of AI utilization in the G&NS segment. Hiroki Totoki then announced that SSS signed a non-binding MOU with TSMC regarding a strategic partnership for the development and manufacturing of next-generation image sensors, with the aim of balancing growth and improving profitability for image sensor business. He emphasized the importance of adaptability in driving each business forward amid technological and geopolitical disruptions and noted that the diversity of its businesses and employees will drive continued success for Sony. - 49 - Table of Contents The details of the corporate strategy announced in the Corporate Strategy and Earnings Announcement Presentation held on May 8, 2026 are as follows: 1. Advancing the Creative Entertainment Vision Under the Creative Entertainment Vision, Sony seeks to leverage the power of technology to empower creators, deliver new experiences to fans across both physical and digital spaces, and maximize the value of IP in its entertainment businesses. • In the anime field, Sony collaborates with Group companies and strategic partners spanning production, fan engagement, marketing and global distribution to generate synergies to deliver anime at scale to worldwide audiences. • The explosive worldwide growth of anime is exemplified by the massive global hit film Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba Infinity Castle , which was produced by Aniplex and its partners. • Crunchyroll serves more than 21 million paid subscribers globally as of the end of March 2026. To further accelerate growth, Crunchyroll newly adopted MyAnimeList as the platform for global fan participation in voting for the 2026 Crunchyroll Anime Awards, in partnership with Gaudiy Inc. In addition, in fall 2026, Crunchyroll will host its first-ever “Crunchyroll Anime Future Forum,” bringing together leading companies from various fields to strengthen relationships with anime fans, Japanese publishers and creators. 2. Optimizing the Business Portfolio During the fifth mid-range plan period, Sony continues to optimize its business portfolio mainly through the following initiatives. • Executed the Partial Spin-off of the Financial Services business as of October 1, 2025. • Signed definitive agreements for a strategic partnership in the home entertainment field of ET&S segment with TCL on March 31, 2026. In parallel with these initiatives, Sony continues to invest and lean into areas where it sees ongoing growth and competitive advantages. • Building on the strategic partnerships announced with Bandai Namco, Sony is further strengthening its position in anime and other areas. • Sony acquired an additional equity interest in Peanuts Holdings, which was owned by WildBrain Ltd., increasing Sony’s ownership stake to 80%. • Following major deals to acquire the Pink Floyd and Queen catalogues, Sony Music Group announced a partnership with GIC Private Limited, to further build its music IP investments. 3. Driving Growth with AI AI brings new opportunities for value creation and growth, and remains a tool to unlock human potential, not a replacement for artists or creators. Under this principle, Sony introduced examples of how it is leveraging AI across its businesses. (1) The role of AI • AI is not only for efficiency, but also a tool to empower creators to expand their creativity, making it easier to take on more innovative projects that were previously difficult to pursue due to constraints of cost and time. • Sony is continuing a collaborative pilot initiative with Bandai Namco to explore the use of generative AI and other advanced technologies, and has confirmed gains such as a significant increase in speed and an improvement in productivity per person in video production. Sony aims to continue to integrate its own technologies with generative AI to establish a creator-first production environment that maximizes creative potential while ensuring safety and security. (2) How AI evolves the PlayStation experience • As AI lowers barriers to creation and increases the volume and diversity of content, the PlayStation platform and studios are expected to remain critical in delivering high quality experiences and helping players discover the right content in an increasingly crowded landscape. • Within the studio business, AI powered tools are automating repetitive workflows and improving productivity across areas such as software development, quality assurance, 3D modeling, and animation, allowing production teams to focus on building richer worlds and gameplay experiences. - 50 - Table of Contents • Across the platform business, AI is driving efficiency, personalization, and customer value at scale, while continued investments in AI and machine learning are expected to push visual fidelity forward and deliver higher quality player experiences. • Overall, AI is expected to unleash the creativity of Sony Interactive Entertainment’s studios, power a more curated and consumer-centric platform, and enhance the PlayStation experience, supported by its global player base, deep IP library, and integrated ecosystem. 4. Strengthening Competitiveness in Sensor Technology that Underpins Creativity Building on the deep expertise cultivated over many years in the analog domain, Sony is strengthening the competitiveness of its sensor technology with a view to mid- to long-term business growth and value creation, while delivering the best possible imaging experience for its customers. • Sony’s image sensors have advanced to a phase beyond competition solely based on specifications. By leveraging deep analog-domain expertise cultivated over many years across areas such as pixel structure, stacking technologies, circuitry, and process technologies, Sony has established difficult-to-replicate strength that underpins its sustainable competitive advantage. • In the mobile image sensor business, which is the core of the I&SS segment, Sony is pursuing enhanced performance through the development of higher density enabled by finer process technologies and stacking technologies. • SSS signed a non-binding MOU with TSMC to form a strategic partnership for the development and manufacturing of next- generation image sensors. Under this partnership, the two companies intend to establish a joint venture, with Sony as the majority and controlling shareholder, and plan to conduct studies toward setting up development and production lines utilizing Sony’s newly constructed fab in Koshi City, Kumamoto Prefecture. 5. Navigating a Changing World Sony is carefully managing technological and geopolitical disruptions that are impacting international supply chains, including the current memory semiconductor shortage driven by surging AI infrastructure demand. Looking ahead, even amid geopolitical complexity and rapid change, the strengths and diversity of Sony’s businesses and employees will continue to support Sony’s growth. Fifth Mid-Range Plan - Financial Targets, Capital Allocation and their Progress <Financial Targets and Capital Allocation> On May 14, 2024, Sony announced the financial targets for the fifth mid-range plan. In the fifth mid-range plan, Sony is placing greater emphasis on profit-based growth, and has set as the key performance indicators for the entire Group the growth rate of consolidated operating income and the operating income margin for Sony without the Financial Services segment *1 . Specifically, Sony is targeting an average annual growth rate of consolidated operating income for the three fiscal years started on April 1, 2024 and ending on March 31, 2027 of 10% or more, and a three-year cumulative consolidated operating income margin of 10% or more. Regarding the capital allocation plan in the fifth mid-range plan, Sony established a capital expenditure target of 1.7 trillion yen and a strategic investment target of 1.8 trillion yen including growth investments for each business and flexible share repurchases. Three-year cumulative consolidated operating cash flow excluding the Financial Services segment, the main source of capital allocation, is expected to be 4.5 trillion yen, exceeding the results of the fourth mid-range plan for the three fiscal years started on April 1, 2021 and ended on March 31, 2024, due to expected profit growth during the fifth mid-range plan as well as the recovery of working capital that increased during the fourth mid-range plan. Regarding shareholder returns, Sony plans to place emphasis on its total payout ratio, which it expects to gradually increase throughout the period of the fifth mid-range plan, aiming for approximately 40% in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2027, which is the final fiscal year of the plan. *1 As a result of the resolution of the Board of Directors of Sony Group Corporation on May 14, 2025 on the plan for the execution of the Partial Spin-off of the Financial Services business, Sony has classified the Financial Services business as a discontinued operation from the first quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2026, and presented it separately from continuing operations excluding the Financial Services business. Therefore, the key performance indicators for the entire Group after May 14, 2025 are the growth rate of consolidated operating income and the operating income margin for continuing operations. - 51 - Table of Contents <Progress> In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2026, the G&NS, Music and I&SS segments, the profit growth drivers of the entire Group, achieved record-high profits. The average annual growth rate of operating income for continuing operations from the fiscal year ended March 31, 2024 was 18%, and the cumulative operating income margin over the two fiscal years ended March 31, 2025 and March 31, 2026 was 11.1%. Regarding capital allocation, Sony has revised its forecast for cumulative three-year operating cash flow on a continuing operations basis, which is the main source of capital, from the previous forecast of 4.8 trillion yen to 5.7 trillion yen, taking into account the results of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2026. Because Sony has made strengthening shareholder returns a priority for the fifth mid-range plan, Sony intends to use such increase as a source of capital mainly for greater shareholder returns. Although the strategic investment budget of 1.8 trillion yen remains unchanged from the original plan, Sony has revised the capital expenditure budget from the previous forecast of 1.7 trillion yen to 1.8 trillion yen. A total of approximately 1.0 trillion yen of strategic investments have been executed or determined already as of May 8, 2026. Regarding shareholder returns, Sony completed a total of 500.0 billion yen in repurchases of its own shares during the period from May 15, 2025 to March 24, 2026, and the annual dividend for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2026, taking into account the stock split *2 , increased 5 yen year-on-year to 25 yen per share (a total of 148.6 billion yen) *3 . For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2027, Sony has established a maximum 500 billion yen share buyback facility for the year from May 11, 2026 to May 10, 2027, and aims to increase the pace of its increase in dividends, raising the annual dividend by 10 yen per share year-on-year *3 to 35 yen per share. *2 Sony Group Corporation conducted a five-for-one stock split of its common stock effective October 1, 2024, with a record date of September 30, 2024. *3 The above figures for the dividend for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2026 and the planned dividend increase for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2027 do not include dividends in kind of the shares of SFGI from the Partial Spin-off of the Financial Services business. E. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS Accounting Standards requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, Sony evaluates its estimates, which are based on historical experience, future projections and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these evaluations form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may significantly differ from these estimates. Sony considers an accounting estimate to be critical if it is important to its financial condition and results, and requires significant judgment and estimates on the part of management in its application. Sony believes that the following represents its critical accounting estimates. The critical accounting estimates should be read in conjunction with Notes 2 and 3 of the consolidated financial statements regarding Sony’s material accounting policies. Impairment of non-financial assets Sony reviews the recoverability of its non-financial assets, except for inventories, contract costs and deferred tax assets, whenever there is any indication that an asset or a cash-generating unit (“CGU”) may be impaired. In addition, an annual impairment test for goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives or intangible assets not yet available for use is performed during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year for each CGU or group of CGUs to which the carrying amount of these assets is allocated. For all other CGUs or groups of CGUs with goodwill, the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying amount, and therefore no impairment existed in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2026, except for certain CGUs, primarily in the Pictures segment, for which impairment losses were recognized. Also, the recoverable amount of these CGUs or groups of CGUs with significant goodwill exceeded their respective carrying values by at least 10.0%. For intangible assets with indefinite useful lives or intangible assets not yet available for use, the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying amount, and therefore no impairment existed. A discussion of the significant assumptions, other than the mid-range plan, including a sensitivity analysis with respect to their impact, of the recoverable amount of each CGU or group of CGUs for the impairment - 52 - Table of Contents analysis for goodwill performed for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2026 is included below. Refer to Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements for details. • The post-tax discount rates ranged from 6.0% to 15.5%. A hypothetical one percentage point increase in the discount rate, holding all other assumptions constant, would not have resulted in a significant impairment. • The growth rates applied to the terminal values for the CGUs within the G&NS, ET&S and I&SS were 2.0%. The growth rates beyond the mid-range plan period for the CGUs in the Music segment ranged from 1.0% to 3.4%, and in the Pictures segment ranged from (5.0%) to 10.0%. A hypothetical one percentage point decrease in the growth rate, holding all other assumptions constant, would not have resulted in a significant impairment. • The earnings multiple used to calculate the terminal value in the Pictures CGUs was 8.9x to 11.0x and the revenue multiple was 1.5x. A hypothetical reduction in earnings multiple by 1.0x and revenue multiple by 0.25x, respectively, holding all other assumptions constant, would not have resulted in a significant impairment. Management believes that the assumptions used in the impairment tests are reasonable. However, in the future, changes in estimates resulting in lower recoverable amounts due to unforeseen changes in assumptions could negatively affect the valuations, which may result in Sony recognizing impairment losses for non-financial assets. Business combinations Sony recognizes identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed of an acquiree at their fair values at the acquisition date with limited exceptions. Sony recognizes goodwill when the aggregate of the consideration transferred in a business combination, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of Sony’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree exceeds the net amount of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree at the acquisition date. If the aggregate above is less than the net amount of identifiable assets and liabilities, the difference is recognized as a gain. Due to the inherent uncertainties involved in making the estimates and assumptions, the consideration transferred could be valued and allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed differently. Actual results may differ, or unanticipated events and circumstances may affect such estimates, which could require Sony to record an impairment of an identifiable asset acquired and goodwill, or an increase in the amounts recorded for identifiable liabilities assumed. Estimation of ultimate revenue in the Pictures segment An aspect of film accounting that requires the exercise of management’s judgment relates to the process of estimating the total revenues to be received throughout a film’s life cycle. Such estimate of a film’s ultimate revenue is important for the measurement of film costs and participation and residual liabilities in the Pictures segment. While a film is being produced and the related costs are being capitalized, it is necessary for management to estimate the ultimate revenue, less additional costs to be incurred, including exploitation costs which are expensed as incurred, in order to determine whether the value of a film has been impaired and thus requires an immediate write-off of unrecoverable film costs. In addition, the amount of film costs recognized as cost of sales for a given film as it is exhibited in various markets throughout its life cycle is based on the ratio of current period actual revenues to the estimated remaining total revenues. Management bases its estimates of ultimate revenue for each film on several factors including the historical performance of similar genre films, the star power of the lead actors, the expected number of theaters at which the film will be released, anticipated performance in the home entertainment, television and other ancillary markets, and agreements for future sales. Management updates such estimates on a regular basis based on the actual results to date and estimated future results for each film. For example, a film with lower-than-expected theatrical revenues in its initial weeks of release would generally have its theatrical, home entertainment and television distribution ultimate revenues adjusted downward; a failure to do so would result in the understatement of amortized film costs for the period. Also, participation and residual liabilities are accrued based on the ratio of current period actual revenues to the estimated remaining total revenues. - 53 - Table of Contents Valuation of deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the assets can be utilized. Accordingly, the valuation of deferred tax assets is assessed periodically with available evidence related to the realizability of the deferred tax assets. The valuation of deferred tax assets, which is based on currently enacted tax laws and rates as of the end of the reporting period, reflects management’s judgment and best estimate of the likely future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in Sony’s financial statements and tax returns, the ability to implement various tax planning strategies and, in certain cases, future forecasts, business plans and other expectations about business outcomes. Changes in existing tax laws or rates in tax jurisdictions in which Sony operates could affect actual tax results, and market or economic deterioration or failure of management to achieve its restructuring objectives could affect future business results, either of which could affect the valuation of deferred tax assets over time. If future results are less than projected, if the results of tax examinations or the negotiations of advance pricing agreements covering transfer pricing of intercompany transactions result in a different allocation of profits and losses than currently anticipated, if tax planning alternatives are no longer viable, or if there is no excess appreciated asset value over the tax basis of the assets contemplated for sale, outstanding deferred tax assets may be required to be written down in the future. On the other hand, a forecasted improvement and consistency in future earnings or other factors, such as business reorganizations, could lead in the future, as a result of a review of all relevant factors, to the reversal of the previous write down of the deferred tax assets which would be recorded as a reduction to tax expense. These possible factors and other changes, that are not anticipated in current estimates, could have a material impact on Sony’s earnings or financial condition in the period or periods in which the impact is recorded or reversed. - 54 - Table of Contents