{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":392122,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
ITEM 1. BUSINESS Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The statements in this report include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof or as of the dates indicated in the statements and should not be relied upon as predictions of future events, as we cannot assure you that the events or circumstances reflected in these statements will be achieved or will occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking terminology including “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “intends,” “plans,” “pro forma,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” or the negative of these words and phrases, other variations of these words and phrases or comparable terminology. The forward-looking statements relate to, among other things: possible impact of future accounting rules on AMD’s consolidated financial statements; demand for AMD’s products; AMD’s strategy and expected benefits; the growth, change and competitive landscape of the markets in which AMD participates; international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future; the expectation that AMD’s cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments together with the availability under that certain revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Agreement) made available to AMD and certain of its subsidiaries, our commercial paper program, and our cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund AMD’s operations, including capital expenditures, purchase and lease commitments and strategic activities over the next 12 months and beyond; AMD’s ability to obtain sufficient external financing on favorable terms, or at all; AMD’s expectation that based on management’s current knowledge, the potential liability related to AMD’s current litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operation or cash flows; anticipated ongoing and increased costs related to enhancing and implementing information security controls; revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations that are unsatisfied which will be recognized in the next 12 months; a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial part of AMD’s revenue and receivables in the future; the expected implications from the development of the legal and regulatory environment relating to emerging technologies such as AI; AMD’s expectation to utilize the cloud service capacity in its operations or assign the capacity; AMD’s expectation that it will not pay dividends in the near future; AMD’s ability to achieve its corporate responsibility initiatives; expected future AI technology trends and developments; the expected benefits of AMD’s acquisitions; and AMD’s expectation to fund stock repurchases through cash generated from operations. For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, see “Part I, Item 1A—Risk Factors” and the “Financial Condition” section set forth in “Part II, Item 7-Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A, and such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this report or detailed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reports and filings. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking statements. Additionally, we make certain voluntary disclosures in this report and on our website, which are informed by various standards and frameworks (including standards for the measurement of underlying data), and the interests of various stakeholders. As such, these voluntary disclosures may not necessarily be “material” under the federal securities laws for SEC reporting purposes. Furthermore, much of this information is subject to methodological considerations or information, including from third-parties, that is still evolving and subject to change, and which AMD does not independently verify. For example, our disclosures based on any standards may change due to revisions in framework requirements, availability of information, changes in our business or applicable government policies, or other factors, some of which may be beyond our control. 1 Table of Conten t s References in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “AMD,” “we,” “us,” “management,” “our” or the “Company” mean Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries. Overview AMD drives innovation in high performance and AI computing to solve the world’s most important challenges. AMD technology powers billions of experiences across cloud and AI infrastructure, embedded systems, AI PCs and gaming. With a broad portfolio of AI-optimized CPUs, GPUs, networking and software, AMD delivers full-stack solutions that help customers turn data into breakthroughs, with the speed and scale needed for a new era of intelligent computing. Our high-performance product portfolios provide differentiated solutions, including semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoCs), adaptive SoCs and accelerated processing units (APUs). For data centers, we offer AI accelerators, microprocessors (CPUs), graphic processing units (GPUs), data processing units (DPUs), AI Network Interface Cards (AI NICs) and field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs). We offer ultra-low latency networking solutions. We also offer data center rack-scale platform designs that incorporate AMD data center products to meet the growing performance demands of AI supercomputers and machine learning workloads. In client computing, our CPUs, APUs and chipsets for desktops and notebooks deliver performance, efficiency, AI capabilities and modern security features for gamers, creators, consumers and enterprises. AMD was the first company to integrate a dedicated neural processing unit (NPU) on the same SoC as an x86 CPU for AI PCs. By bringing NPU‑accelerated AI capabilities directly into mainstream x86 platforms, we established a differentiated technology footprint that supports a growing ecosystem of AI‑enabled applications and lays the groundwork for the multi‑generation Ryzen™ AI roadmap that continues to expand our leadership. Our GPUs, including discrete GPUs and semi-custom SoCs, are combined with software to power immersive gaming experiences across PCs, game consoles and cloud gaming services. Our embedded computing portfolio delivers high-performance, scalable solutions across CPUs, APUs, FPGAs, System-on-Modules (SOMs) and adaptive SoCs for markets such as automotive, industrial, healthcare, storage and networking with integrated AI processing capabilities. We develop comprehensive software stacks that include development tools, compilers and drivers to enable our high-performance CPUs, APUs, GPUs and FPGAs. We have a comprehensive and open AI software stack to support the diverse set of AI ecosystems across frameworks, large and small language models and applications. By working closely with customers, we deliver customized solutions that meet their evolving needs, leveraging our broad IP portfolio and leadership in design, integration and advanced packaging. Our investments in technologies such as our custom-ready chiplet platform and AMD Infinity Fabric™ switch position us to maintain our leadership as a custom-design silicon provider of choice. Our Strategy We believe AI is shaping the next era of computing and its full potential will be realized when it becomes pervasive across cloud, edge and endpoint devices. With our compute engines, intellectual property, software enablement and deep expertise, AMD is positioned to lead in this next computing era. Our broad portfolio spans supercomputing, cloud, edge, embedded and end devices, providing the unique opportunity to make AMD the end-to-end AI leader. In 2025, a key priority was accelerating growth in our Data Center segment. Demand for our data center AI accelerator products was strong as large hyperscale customers, OEMs and ODMs deployed our AMD Instinct™ MI350X Series GPUs. We advanced our AMD AI GPU roadmap to deliver an annual cadence of leadership for AMD Instinct solutions, beginning with the AMD Instinct MI350 Series GPUs in 2025. Beyond GPUs, we launched the 5th Gen AMD EPYC™ family of server processors in 2025, which deliver leadership performance and capabilities for a wide range of data center workloads, including AI. In addition, we previewed our “Helios” AI rack-scale platform solution that incorporates all of our data center products (CPUs, GPUs and Networking) to address the growing AI compute requirements. We strengthened our AI leadership through a number of strategic acquisitions during the year. In March 2025, we acquired ZT Group Int’l, Inc. (ZT Systems), where we retained certain intellectual property and employees associated with the design operations (ZT Design Business). This acquisition enables us to deliver end-to-end AI solutions and accelerate the design and deployment of AMD-powered AI infrastructure at scale optimized for the cloud. In October 2025, we sold the ZT data center infrastructure manufacturing business (ZT Manufacturing Business) to Sanmina Corporation (Sanmina). We made other strategic acquisitions during the year to advance our software capabilities and enable highly optimized solutions across the stack, support co-packaged optics solutions for next-generation AI systems, and bring deep expertise in high-speed inference and reasoning-based AI technologies for large-scale deployments. 2 Table of Conten t s We believe that AI systems will require not only powerful chips, but also full-stack innovation across compute, networking, systems architecture and software. AMD is uniquely positioned to deliver across this stack, combining industry-leading CPUs, GPUs and adaptive SoCs with networking, software and system integration expertise. We continue to invest in software capabilities and the open ecosystem through the AMD ROCm™ platform, delivering new features for high-performance AI training and inference. In 2025, we introduced key optimizations and expanded support for frameworks and libraries, improving performance for generative AI workloads and simplifying the developer experience. In October 2025, we entered into a product purchase agreement with OpenAI OpCo, LLC, (OpenAI) to deploy 6 gigawatts of AMD GPUs, with the deployment of the first gigawatt of capacity powered by our AMD Instinct MI450 series products. This multiyear strategic partnership with OpenAI demonstrates our continued execution of hardware, software and full-stack solutions roadmaps. Our Business Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, we combined the Client and Gaming segments into one reportable segment to align with how we manage our business. All prior period segment data were retrospectively adjusted. Our three reportable segments are: • the Data Center segment, which primarily includes AI accelerators, CPUs for servers, GPUs, APUs, DPUs, AI NICs, FPGAs and SoC products for data centers; • the Client and Gaming segment, which primarily includes CPUs, APUs, chipsets for desktops and notebooks, discrete GPUs, and semi-custom SoC products and development services; and • the Embedded segment, which primarily includes embedded CPUs, APUs, FPGAs, SOMs, and adaptive SoC products. From time to time, the Company may also sell or license portions of its IP portfolio. In addition to these reportable segments, we have an All Other category, which is not a reportable segment. Data Center Segment Data Center Market The Data Center segment primarily includes server-class CPUs, GPUs, AI accelerators, DPUs, AI NICs, FPGAs, and adaptive SoC products. We leverage our technology to address the computational, visual data processing and AI workload acceleration needs in the data center market. Modern data centers require high performance, energy efficient, scalable and adaptable compute engines to meet the demand driven by the growing amount of data that needs to be stored, accessed, analyzed and managed. Different combinations of CPUs, GPUs, DPUs, AI NICs, FPGAs and adaptive SoCs enable the optimization of performance and power for a diverse set of workloads. Data Center Products Server CPUs. Our CPUs for server platforms currently include the AMD EPYC™ Series processors. EPYC CPUs, which are based on the x86 architecture, are server-specific processors designed for high-performance computing, enterprise IT, supercomputing, and large data centers. Our 5th generation AMD EPYC family of server processors delivers improved performance and efficiency for AI, cloud and enterprise workloads. Data Center GPUs. Our AMD Instinct™ family of GPU products, including AMD Instinct MI200, MI300, MI325 and MI350 series, are based on AMD CDNA™ architecture and designed for AI training, inference and exascale-class scientific computing. We also announced next-generation AMD Instinct MI355X GPUs for large-scale AI deployments. Our visual cloud GPU offerings include products in the AMD Radeon™ PRO V families. Our visual cloud data center GPUs include a range of solutions tailored towards workloads requiring remote visualization, such as Desktop-as-a-Service, Workstation-as-a-Service and Cloud Gaming. FPGAs and Adaptive SoCs. We offer a wide range of FPGAs, adaptive SoCs and acceleration cards for the data center. Devices include the Virtex™, Kintex™, Artix™, and Spartan™ FPGA products, as well as Zynq™ and Versal™ adaptive SoCs. Our Alveo™ accelerator cards provide a platform for accelerating multiple data center workloads at the edge or in the cloud. 3 Table of Conten t s Networking Products. Our AMD Pensando™ DPUs and comprehensive networking software stack offload data center infrastructure services from the host CPU and are used by large Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud providers to accelerate workload performance for hosted virtualized and bare-metal offerings. We introduced our AMD Pensando “Pollara” 400 AI NICs and “Vulcano” AI NICs, which deliver high-speed connectivity across GPU clusters providing high-performance, AI-ready, flexible solutions for scale-out networking. The AMD Solarflare™ portfolio continues to offer low latency networking solutions for capital markets, including hardware adapters and the Onload™ user space networking libraries. Client and Gaming Segment Client Business Client Market Our CPUs and APUs power PCs that are an integral part of how customers work, learn and play. The Client market encompasses the global personal computing ecosystem, including desktop and notebook PCs sold primarily through OEMs, distributors and select direct customers. Our products consist mainly of x86 CPUs and APUs marketed under the AMD Ryzen™ and AMD Ryzen™ AI brands for consumer, commercial and enthusiast segments. Our customers focus on a combination of performance, efficiency, reliability, and value that aligns with their specific use cases. We built a leadership roadmap across these areas and are continuing to further differentiate end user experiences by infusing AI across our portfolio. Client Products Desktop CPUs. Our desktop CPU and APU offerings include the AMD Ryzen™ and AMD Ryzen Threadripper™ processors. The Ryzen 9000 Series processors feature “Zen 5” cores, along with X3D models featuring 2nd generation AMD 3D V-Cache™ technology for leadership gaming performance. In 2025, we launched processors for gaming and content creation with Ryzen 9 9950X3D and Ryzen 9 9900X3D. In January 2026, we announced the Ryzen 7 9850X3D, in addition to our Ryzen 7 9800X3D series. Our Ryzen Threadripper™ 9000 Series processors for professional workstations feature increased core counts, expanded memory bandwidth and updated platform capabilities. Our portfolio also includes a broad range of Ryzen 9000 and Ryzen series desktop processors featuring a wide range of capabilities and price points for the growing Socket AM5 platform. In 2025, we released additional AMD Ryzen G Series processors with integrated advanced graphics to extend the longevity of the Socket AM4 platform. Notebook CPUs. Our latest mobile processors are designed to deliver premium laptop experiences with local AI. In 2025, we launched AMD Ryzen AI 300 Series processors featuring a next generation NPU supporting Microsoft Copilot+ PCs, our latest “Zen 5” architecture and our AMD RDNA™ 3.5 graphics architecture. In January 2026, we launched our Ryzen AI 400 series processors, the next generation of processors for AI PCs. Building on our AI PC momentum, we expanded our portfolio by introducing Ryzen AI-powered platforms across notebooks and mini desktops and introduced a new reference platform for AI developers in January 2026, the Ryzen AI Halo, that features up to 128GB of memory for large AI model support. We also expanded the Ryzen AI Max processor lineup with the Ryzen AI Max+392 and Ryzen AI Max+388 to enable wider price points for our maximum GPU configurations. Our AMD Ryzen 8000 Series mobile processors, built on the “Zen 4” architecture feature our first generation NPU, and our Ryzen 10 and 100 series mobile processors, powered by both our “Zen 2” and “Zen 3+” core architectures, all address mainstream consumer and commercial markets. For handheld gaming systems, our Ryzen Z1 Series continues to deliver immersive experiences, and we introduced the Ryzen Z2 Series, bringing higher efficiency and improved graphics performance for portable gaming devices including the new Asus ROG Xbox Ally. 4 Table of Conten t s Commercial CPUs. AMD Ryzen PRO solutions deliver enterprise-class security, manageability, and reliability for commercial client PCs including business notebooks, desktops, and workstations. In 2025, we reinforced our leadership in commercial computing with new Ryzen PRO offerings that integrate AI capabilities, delivering performance, mobility, and enterprise features for our customers. Our AMD Ryzen AI PRO 300 Series, brings world-class security and manageability, with leadership productivity, battery life and AI capabilities to business notebooks and mobile workstations. With the announcement of our Ryzen AI 400 PRO Series, we continued to expand our next gen AI PC leadership and offerings. In 2025, we also launched the AMD Ryzen PRO 200 Series mobile processors that expand our commercial CPU portfolio enabling high performance PCs spanning a range of price points. For desktops, the AMD Ryzen PRO 8000G Series desktops offer an integrated AI solution for enterprises, and our AMD Ryzen Threadripper PRO CPU enables leadership performance, expanded memory bandwidth and platform reliability for premium workstations. Chipsets. We offer a full suite of chipset products to support our AMD Ryzen and AMD Ryzen Threadripper platforms, for entry level through professional workstation desktop systems. These chipsets complement our latest CPU innovations, supporting robust connectivity and scalability for diverse client computing needs. Gaming Business Graphics Market Graphics processing is a fundamental component across many of our products. Our customers generally use our graphics solutions to enable immersive visualization and to process AI/ML based workloads. We develop our graphics products for use in various computing devices and entertainment platforms, including data centers, desktop PCs, notebook PCs, handheld devices, All-in-Ones and professional workstations. In addition, we leverage our core IP, including graphics and processing technologies, to develop semi-custom solutions deeply co-engineered with our customers, which has enabled many of today’s leading gaming consoles and handheld gaming products. Semi-Custom Products. Our semi-custom products are tailored, high-performance, customer-specific solutions based on CPU, GPU and multi-media technologies. We work closely with our customers to define solutions precisely matching their system requirements. AMD semi-custom SoC products power the Sony PlayStation ® 5, the Microsoft ® Xbox Series S™ and X™ game consoles, as well as the recently revealed Valve Steam Machine PC. Discrete Desktop and Notebook GPUs . Our AMD Radeon RX discrete GPU processors for PCs power the latest gaming and creation platforms. In 2025, we released our Radeon RX 9000 Series graphics cards, based on a new AMD RDNA™ 4 architecture, designed for increased AI performance, new levels of ray tracing capabilities and enhanced performance per watt to deliver new levels of performance for gamers and creators. All of our graphics products are supported by the AMD software: Adrenalin Edition™ application, which is regularly enhanced to provide the latest in performance, features, and stability. We also released FSR “Redstone” gaming technologies to integrate Machine Learning for improved performance and visuals on our Radeon RX 9000 graphics cards. Professional GPUs. Our AMD Radeon PRO family of professional graphics products are designed for integration in desktop workstations, optimized through hardware and software for demanding use cases such as 3D rendering, design and manufacturing for Computer-Aided Design (CAD), and media and entertainment for broadcast and animation pipelines on high resolution displays. In 2025, we launched our Radeon AI PRO R9000 Series of graphics cards, intended for local AI inference and creative workloads enabling professionals to accelerate AI-driven content creation and advanced visualization tasks directly on their workstation. 5 Table of Conten t s Embedded Segment The Embedded Market The Embedded segment primarily includes embedded CPUs, APUs, FPGAs, and adaptive SoC products. Embedded products address computing needs in aerospace and defense, automotive, industrial, vision and healthcare, communications infrastructure, test and measurement, emulation and prototyping, audio, video and broadcasting, and data center. Typically, our embedded products are used in applications that require varying levels of performance, where key features may include relatively low power, small form factors, and 24x7 operations. High-performance graphics are important in some embedded systems. Support for Linux ® , Windows ® and other operating systems as well as for increasingly sophisticated applications are also critical for some customers. Other requirements may include meeting rigid specifications for industrial temperatures, shock, vibration and reliability. The embedded market has moved from developing proprietary, custom designs to leveraging industry-standard instruction set architectures and processors to help reduce cost and speed time to market. Embedded Products Embedded CPUs and APUs . Our embedded portfolio expanded in 2025 with the introduction of three new AMD EPYC embedded processor series: AMD EPYC Embedded 9005 Series, EPYC Embedded 4005 Series processors and EPYC Embedded 2005 Series. These new series deliver enhanced performance and extended lifecycles for networking, storage, and edge server applications. We also launched the AMD Ryzen Embedded 9000 Series processors, offering performance-per-watt and low latency for automation systems and machine vision applications. In January 2026, we introduced a new family of Ryzen AI Embedded series processors with two new series: the Ryzen AI Embedded P100 and Ryzen AI Embedded X100 Series. These additions complement our existing AMD EPYC Embedded CPUs and AMD Ryzen Embedded Series processors including V-Series APUs and CPUs and R-Series APUs and CPUs. Our embedded solutions are designed to support high performance compute, high-bandwidth network connectivity and security, high-performance storage requirements for enterprise and cloud infrastructure, 3D graphics performance and 4K multimedia requirements of automotive infotainment systems. FPGAs and Adaptive SoCs. O ur FPGA products are hardware-customizable devices that can be tailored to meet the specific needs of each customer, enabling them to differentiate their products and accelerate time to market. Our FPGA families include AMD UltraScale+™, UltraScale™ 7 Series, and other earlier series. Adaptive SoC products include the AMD Zynq™ SoC and Zynq UltraScale+ Multi-Processing System-on-a-Chip (MPSoC), which combine FPGA technology with a heterogeneous processing system, as well as the industry’s first RFSoC architecture with integrated radio frequency (RF) data converters (Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoC and Zynq RFSoC DFE). The AMD Versal™ portfolio, composed of software-programmable adaptive SoCs, is a heterogeneous compute platform that combines a processing system, programmable logic, AI Engines, and digital signal processing (DSP) Engines. The Versal devices achieve dramatic system-level performance improvements over today's fastest FPGA competitors’ solutions and accelerate applications in a wide variety of markets, including aerospace and defense, automotive, industrial, vision and healthcare, communications infrastructure, test and measurement, emulation and prototyping, audio, video and broadcasting, and data center. Our Versal RF Series delivers compute performance for aerospace and defense applications. We introduced our Versal Premium Series Gen 2, the first adaptive compute devices supporting next-generation CXL® and PCIe® connectivity. Development Boards, Kits and Configuration Products. We offer development kits for all our FPGA and adaptive SoCs. These kits include hardware, development tools, IP, and reference designs that streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and market-specific applications. We continue to enhance developer productivity with expanded support for AMD Kria™ SOMs and starter kits, enabling rapid prototyping and deployment for motor control and edge AI applications. Our Kria K24 SOM provides high determinism and low latency for powering electric drives and motor controllers used in compute-intensive DSP applications at the edge. Coupled with our Kria KD240 Drives Starter Kit, an out-of-the-box-ready motor control-based development platform, the products offer a seamless path to production deployment. 6 Table of Conten t s Design Platforms and Services Adaptable Platforms. We offer two types of platforms that support our customers' designs and reduce their development efforts: FPGAs and adaptive SoCs. FPGAs feature reconfigurable hardware as well as integrated memory, DSP, analog mixed signal, high-speed serial transceivers and networking cores coupled with advanced software for a broad range of applications in all of our end markets. Our adaptive SoCs feature a heterogeneous processing system with integrated programmable hardware fabric targeting embedded systems that need real-time control, analytics, sensor fusion and adaptable hardware for differentiation and acceleration. Our Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoCs feature integrated high-performance RF data converters targeting wireless, radar and cable access applications. Enabled by both hardware and software design tools and an extensive operating system, middleware, software stack and IP ecosystem, adaptive SoCs target software developers as well as traditional hardware designers. Our Versal portfolio combines a processing system, programmable logic, AI Engines, and DSP Engines with leading-edge memory and interfacing technologies to deliver powerful heterogeneous acceleration for any application. This product portfolio is ideally suited to accelerate a broad set of applications in the emerging era of big data and AI. Software Development Platform. Our AMD Vivado™ Design Suite provides hardware design teams with the tools and methodology needed to program FPGAs and adaptive SoCs. Our Vitis™ unified software platform enables the development and deployment of embedded software and accelerated applications on our FPGAs and adaptive SoCs. Our Vitis AI unified software platform enables the development and deployment of AI software on our FPGAs and adaptive SoCs. Sales and Marketing We sell our products via a direct sales force, our OEMs (as described in detail below) and through independent distributors and sales representatives in both domestic and international markets. Our sales arrangements generally operate on the basis of product forecasts provided by the particular customer, but do not typically include any commitment or requirement for minimum product purchases. We use purchase orders and related documents, and contractual agreements as evidence of our sales arrangements. Our agreements typically contain standard terms and conditions covering matters such as payment terms, warranties and indemnities for issues specific to our products. We generally warrant that our products sold to our customers will conform to our approved specifications and be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and conditions for one year. We offer up to three-year limited warranties for certain product types and sometimes provide other warranty periods based on negotiated terms with certain customers. We market and sell our latest products under the AMD trademark. Our product brand for server microprocessors is AMD EPYC™ processors. Our product brands for data center graphics are AMD Instinct™ accelerators and AMD Radeon™ PRO V Series. Our product brands for data center networking are AMD Pensando™ Pollara 400 AI NIC and AMD Pensando Salina DPU. Our product brand for low-latency adapters for FinTech is AMD Solarflare™ adapters. Our client product brands for desktop and notebook PCs include: AMD Ryzen™, AMD Ryzen™ AI, AMD Ryzen™ PRO, AMD Ryzen™ Threadripper™, AMD Ryzen™ Threadripper™ PRO, AMD Athlon™, and AMD PRO A-Series processors. Our product brand for the consumer graphics market is AMD Radeon™ graphics, and AMD Embedded Radeon graphics is our product brand for the embedded graphics market. Our product brand for professional graphics products is AMD Radeon™ PRO graphics. We also market and sell our chipsets under AMD trademarks. Our FPGA products are Virtex™ 6, Virtex 7, Virtex UltraScale+, Kintex™ 7, Kintex UltraScale™, Kintex UltraScale+, Artix™ 7, Artix UltraScale+, Spartan™ 6, and Spartan 7 brands. 7 Table of Conten t s Our product brands for adaptive SoCs are Zynq™ 7000, Zynq UltraScale+™ MPSoC, Zynq UltraScale+ RFSoCs, Versal™ HBM, Versal Premium, Versal Prime, Versal™ AI Core and Versal AI Edge. The software tools for our programmable devices are Vitis™, Vitis AI™, and Vivado™ tools. Our System-on-Module (SOM) product is the Kria™ brand. We also sell low-power versions of our AMD Athlon™, as well as AMD Geode™, AMD Ryzen™, AMD EPYC™, AMD R Series and G Series processors as embedded processor solutions. Our compute and network acceleration board products are sold under the Alveo™ and Pensando™ brands. We market our products through direct marketing and co-marketing programs. In addition, we have cooperative advertising and marketing programs with customers and third parties, including market development programs, pursuant to which we may provide product information, training, marketing materials and funds. Under our co-marketing development programs, eligible customers can use market development funds as reimbursement for advertisements and marketing programs related to our products and third-party systems integrating our products, subject to meeting defined criteria. Customers Our Data Center Segment customers consist primarily of hyperscale data centers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs), system integrators and independent distributors in both domestic and international markets. ODMs provide design and/or manufacturing services to branded and unbranded private label resellers, OEMs and system builders. Our Client and Gaming Segment customers consist primarily of PC OEMs, a network of independent distributors and, for chipset products, ODMs that manufacture motherboards. PC OEMs and independent distributors as well as add-in-board manufacturers (AIBs), independent game console and portable gaming devices manufacturers and contract manufacturers for AMD branded graphics cards. Our Embedded Segment products are sold to customers in a very wide range of markets such as aerospace and defense, automotive, industrial, vision and healthcare, communications infrastructure, test and measurement, emulation and prototyping, audio, video and broadcasting and data center. For these products, we either sell directly to our customers or through a network of distributors and OEM partners. We are also developing a network of Value Added Resellers (VARs) and Integrated Solution Vendors (ISVs) for our Alveo products. We work closely with our customers to define product features, performance and timing of new products so that the products we are developing meet our customers’ needs. We also employ application engineers to assist our customers in designing, testing and qualifying system designs that incorporate our products. We believe that our commitment to customer service and design support improves our customers’ time to market and fosters relationships that encourage customers to use the next generation of our products. We also work with our customers to create differentiated products that leverage our CPU, GPU, APU, DPU, AI NIC, and FPGA technology. Certain customers pay us non-recurring engineering fees for design and development services and a purchase price for the resulting products. Original Equipment Manufacturers We focus on three types of OEM partners: multi-nationals, selected regional accounts and selected global and local system integrators, who target commercial and consumer end customers of all sizes. Large multi-nationals and regional accounts are the core of our OEM partners’ business; however, we are increasingly focused on the VAR channel, which resells OEM systems to the mid-market and the small and medium business (SMB) segments. Additionally, we have increased our focus on global system integrators, which resell OEM systems, coupled with their software and services solutions into Enterprise, High Performance Computing (HPC) and Cloud Service Provider customers. Our OEM customers include numerous foreign and domestic manufacturers of servers and workstations, desktops, notebooks, PC motherboards and game consoles. 8 Table of Conten t s Hyperscale Data Centers Large multi-national public cloud service providers and hyperscale private data centers directly and indirectly purchase a substantial portion of our data center-focused products, including server CPUs, GPU accelerators, DPUs, AI NICs, FPGAs and adaptive SoCs. These products are incorporated into servers and other data center appliances sold by OEMs to the hyperscale customers or into custom servers or hardware designed by or for these customers and manufactured by ODMs or contract manufacturers. Hyperscale data centers use these products to operate web-based applications or to support public cloud computing and storage service offerings, including but not limited to AI workloads such as generative AI models. Third-Party Distributors Our authorized channel distributors resell to sub-distributors, OEMs, ODMs and other customers. Typically, distributors handle a wide variety of products, and may include products from other manufacturers that compete with our products. Distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. In most instances, our agreements with distributors protect their inventory of our products against price reductions and provide certain return rights with respect to any product that we have removed from our price book or are otherwise subject to discontinuation. In addition, some agreements with our distributors may contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited product returns. Add-in-Board (AIB) Manufacturers and System Integrators We offer component-level graphics and chipset products to AIB manufacturers who in turn build and sell board-level products using our technology to system integrators (SIs), retailers and sub distributors. In most instances, our agreements with AIBs protect their inventory of our products against price reductions. We also sell directly to some SI customers. SIs typically sell from positions of regional or product-based strength in the market. They usually operate on short design cycles and can respond quickly with new technologies. SIs often use discrete graphics solutions as a means to differentiate their products and add value to their customers. Competition The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive and rapidly evolving and delivering the latest and best products to market on time is critical to revenue growth. The competitiveness of our products depends on a number of factors including, performance, total cost of ownership, timely product introductions, product quality and reliability, product features and capabilities, energy efficiency (including power consumption and battery life, given their impact on total cost of ownership), size (or form factor), selling price, cost, adherence to industry standards (and the creation of open industry standards), level of integration, software and hardware compatibility, ease of use and functionality of software design tools, completeness of applicable software solutions, security and stability, brand recognition and availability. Competition is expected to remain intense, driven by rapid technological change, evolving standards, shifting customer preferences, product obsolescence, and frequent product launches from both established and new competitors. Competition in Data Center Segment In the Data Center segment, we compete primarily against Intel Corporation (Intel) and Nvidia Corporation (Nvidia with our CPU, GPU DPU and AI NIC server products. In addition, we compete against Altera with our FPGA and adaptive SoC server products. A variety of smaller fabless silicon companies offer proprietary accelerator solutions and Arm®-based CPUs targeting data center use cases. In addition, some of our customers are internally developing their own data center microprocessor products and accelerator products which could impact the available market for our products. Competition in Client and Gaming Segment Our primary competitor in the supply of CPUs and APUs is Intel. A variety of companies provide or have developed Arm-based microprocessors and platforms which could lead to further adoption of Arm-based PC solutions. 9 Table of Conten t s Our principal competitor in the supply of discrete graphics is Nvidia, who is the discrete GPU market share leader, and Intel, who manufactures and sells integrated graphics processors and gaming-focused discrete GPUs. With respect to integrated graphics, higher unit shipments of our APUs and Intel’s integrated graphics may drive computer manufacturers to reduce the number of systems they build paired with discrete graphics components, particularly for notebooks, because they may offer satisfactory graphics performance for most mainstream PC users at a lower cost. We are the market share leader in semi-custom game console products, where graphics performance is critical. Competition in Embedded Segment We expect continued competition from our primary FPGA competitors such as Altera, Lattice Semiconductor Corporation and Microsemi Corporation, and from ASSP vendors such as Broadcom Corporation, Marvell Technology Group, Ltd., Analog Devices, Texas Instruments Incorporated, NXP Semiconductors N.V., Qualcomm Incorporated and NVIDIA. In addition, we expect continued competition from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs. Intel is our main competitor for embedded CPUs. Other competitors include manufacturers of high-density programmable logic products characterized by FPGA-type architectures; high-volume and low-cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs; ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; high-speed, low-density CPLDs; high-performance DSP devices; products with embedded processors; products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; discrete general-purpose GPUs targeting data center and automotive applications; and other new or emerging programmable logic products . Research and Development We focus our research and development (R&D) activities on designing and developing products. Our main area of focus is on delivering the next generation of processors (CPU and GPU), FPGAs and adaptive SoCs, accelerators (adaptive, graphics and DPU), SOMs and AI NICs, and the associated software for these products. We focus on designing, with security in mind, new integrated circuits (ICs) with improved performance and performance-per-watt in advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes, the design of logic and interface IP, advanced packaging technologies, and heterogeneous integration technologies. We also focus on software as part of the development of our products, including design automation tools for hardware, embedded software, AI stack, and optimized software tools and libraries that extend the reach of our platforms to software and AI developers. Through our R&D efforts, we were able to introduce a number of new products and enhance our IP core offerings and software. We also work with industry leaders on process technology, design tools, intellectual property, software and other industry consortia to conduct early-stage R&D. We are also actively contributing to numerous industry open-source software initiatives and industry consortia across a broad range of technologies. We conduct product and system R&D activities for our products in the United States with additional design and development engineering teams located in various countries who undertake specific activities at the direction of our U.S. headquarters. Manufacturing Arrangements and Assembly and Test Facilities Third-Party Wafer Foundry Facilities We utilize Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (TSMC) for the production of wafers for our HPC, FPGA and adaptive SoC products and GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF), with respect to wafer purchases for our HPC products at the 12 nm and 14 nm technology nodes. Additionally, we utilize TSMC, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. for the production of our ICs in the form of programmable logic devices. Other Third-Party Manufacturers We outsource board-level graphics product manufacturing to third-party manufacturers. Assembly, Test, Mark and Packaging Facilities Wafers for our products are either sorted by the foundry or delivered by the foundry to our assembly, test, mark and packaging (ATMP) partners or subcontractors located in the Asia-Pacific region, who package and test our final semiconductor products. We are party to two ATMP joint ventures (collectively, the ATMP JVs) with Tongfu Microelectronics Co., Ltd. The ATMP JVs, Siliconware Precision Industries Ltd. (SPIL) and King Yuan Electronics Company (KYEC) provide ATMP services for our products. 10 Table of Conten t s Intellectual Property and Licensing We rely on contracts and intellectual property rights to protect our products and technologies from unauthorized third-party copying and use. Intellectual property rights include copyrights, patents, patent applications, trademarks, trade secrets and mask work rights. As of December 27, 2025, we had approximately 7,200 patents in the United States and approximately 2,200 patent applications pending in the United States. In certain cases, we have filed corresponding applications in foreign jurisdictions. Including United States and foreign matters, we have approximately 18,900 patent matters worldwide consisting of approximately 12,600 issued patents and 6,300 patent applications pending. We expect to file future patent applications in both the United States and abroad on significant inventions, as we deem appropriate. We do not believe that any individual patent, or the expiration of any patent, is or would be material to our business. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have numerous cross-licensing and technology exchange agreements with other companies under which we both transfer and receive intellectual property and technology rights. We have acquired various licenses from external parties to certain technologies that are implemented in our products, including our IP cores and devices. These licenses support our continuing ability to make and sell our products. We have also acquired licenses to certain proprietary software, open-source software, and related technologies, such as compilers, for our design tools. Continued use of such software and technology is important to the operation of the design tools upon which our customers depend . Backlog Sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery or agreements covering purchases over a period of time. Although such orders or agreements may provide visibility into future quarters, they may not necessarily be indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period as some of these orders or agreements may be revised or canceled without penalty. Seasonality Our operating results tend to vary seasonally. Historically, our net revenue has been generally higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year, although market conditions and product transitions could impact these trends. Human Capital As of December 27, 2025, we had approximately 31,000 employees in our global workforce. We believe we are at our best when our culture of innovation and people from all kinds of backgrounds work together in an engaging and open environment. Areas of focus for us include: Mission, Culture, and Engagement Founded in 1969 as a Silicon Valley start-up, the AMD journey began with dozens of employees focused on leading-edge semiconductor products. From those modest beginnings, we have grown into a global company achieving many important industry firsts along the way. Today, we develop AI and high-performance computing to solve some of the world’s toughest challenges. Our Vision - High performance and adaptive computing is transforming our lives. Our Mission - Build great products that accelerate next-generation computing experiences. Our employees are driven by this vision and mission. Innovation occurs when creative minds and diverse perspectives work together. This is the foundation of our unique culture and the reason we believe our employees are among the most engaged in our industry. We conduct an annual survey of our global workforce to measure our culture, engagement, and workplace experience. The results are reviewed by our Board of Directors and acted upon by our senior leadership team. Results from our 2025 survey reported scores that continued to be among the very best for global companies in the technology industry. Diversity, Belonging and Inclusion (DB&I) Our diverse workforce allows us to create an inclusive workplace that encourages employees to share their opinions and different perspectives. We believe that having a diverse talent pipeline, encouraging a culture of respect and belonging, and enabling unique voices to be heard fosters innovation and makes our company stronger. Our 11 Table of Conten t s Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) encourage employee engagement and play an important role in our culture. ERGs are voluntary initiatives in which an employee chooses to actively participate in one or more employee engagement programs. In 2025, we broadened our commitment to developing our engineering talent by expanding mentoring opportunities and career development programs for engineering professionals at AMD. Total Rewards We invest in our workforce by offering competitive salaries, incentives, and benefits to ensure that we continue to attract and retain the industry’s best and brightest in an equitable manner. We regularly review our compensation practices, considering factors relevant to ensuring equitable pay such as an employee’s role, experience, skills, and performance. We also benchmark set pay ranges based on relevant market data and our overall workforce. We focus on flexibility and choice in our benefits that resonate with a multi-generational workforce as well as offering inclusive benefits. We also provide flexibility with in-person, hybrid and remote work as options for our employees. We have a strong pay for performance culture that we believe drives superior results and our rewards programs enable us to attract, retain and motivate our workforce. Development We offer our employees opportunities to advance their careers at the Company and the majority of our new leaders are promoted from within. We are focused on leadership progression and encourage our employees to take advantage of new opportunities. Our manager and leadership development programs are highly rated, and we provide specialized development programs for our employees as well as educational assistance in the form of tuition reimbursement for eligible employees to continue their university education or achieve advanced certifications. We have an enterprise-wide mentoring program where employees have the opportunity to learn from experienced colleagues, develop new skills, and build their professional networks. The program also supports effective onboarding, helping new hires more quickly acclimate to our company culture and work processes. Employee Voice At AMD, we value the importance of employee voice and actively engage in efforts to ensure that our employees' opinions and perspectives are heard and considered. Our employee voice strategy includes an annual AMDer Survey (engagement survey) referenced above. Additionally, we measure effectiveness across all elements of the employee lifecycle, including onboarding, exit, and regularly seek out employee feedback on areas including benefits and total rewards satisfaction. Further, our executive team holds frequent employee roundtables, town halls and global team meetings, which facilitate open communication and feedback from our workforce. Government Regulations Our global operations are subject to various United States and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those relating to export control, customs, intellectual property, data privacy and security, climate, environmental, health and safety requirements, cybersecurity, tax, employment, competition and anti-trust, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, conflict minerals, corporate governance, financial and other disclosures, and AI. Compliance with these governmental laws and regulations do not presently have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position. However, compliance with changes to existing or new regulations may have a material adverse impact on our future capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position. In addition, the failure to comply with government laws and regulations may subject us to consequences including fines, limits on our ability to sell our products, suspension of certain of our business activities, reputational damage, criminal and civil liabilities, and sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position. For additional information about government regulations applicable to our business, and their potential impacts see Risk Factors in Item 1A. Environmental Regulations Our operations and properties are subject to various United States and foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to materials used in our products and the manufacturing processes of our products, discharge of pollutants into the environment, the treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and remediation of contamination. These laws and regulations require our suppliers to obtain permits for operations in making our products, including the discharge of air pollutants and wastewater. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and tend to become more stringent over time. 12 Table of Conten t s Certain environmental laws, including the United States Comprehensive, Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or the Superfund Act, impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability on current and previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances and impose liability for damages to natural resources. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. These environmental laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. Such persons can be responsible for cleanup costs even if they never owned or operated the contaminated facility. We have been named as a responsible party at three Superfund Sites in Sunnyvale, California that are on the National Priorities List. Since 1981, we have discovered hazardous material releases to the soil and groundwater from former underground tanks and proceeded to investigate and conduct remediation at these three sites. The chemicals released into the groundwater were commonly used in the semiconductor industry in the United States in the wafer fabrication process. In 1991, we received Final Site Clean-up Requirements Orders from the California Regional Water Quality Control Board relating to the three sites. We entered into an agreement with another responsible party with respect to one of the sites. Pursuant to that agreement, the other party is responsible for cleanup of certain offsite contamination. We remain responsible for cleanup not covered by the agreement, including on-site cleanup, as well as all remaining costs in the event that the other party does not fulfill its obligations under the agreement. To address anticipated future remediation costs under the orders, we have computed and recorded an estimated environmental liability of approximately $5.9 million and have not recorded any potential insurance recoveries in determining the estimated costs of the cleanup. The progress of future remediation efforts cannot be predicted with certainty and these costs may change. We believe that any amount in addition to what has already been accrued would not be material. Additional environmental regulations on materials, chemicals, energy and waste apply directly or indirectly to the design, manufacturing, use and end-of-use of semiconductor devices and solutions. As examples, the European Union (EU) and China are among a growing number of jurisdictions that have enacted restrictions on the use of lead and other materials in electronic products. Chemical reporting and restriction requirements continue to evolve, namely related to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). Jurisdictions including the EU, California and China are developing or have finalized product energy efficiency regulations impacting market access and/or public procurement for computers and servers. Existing and developing regulations related to electronic waste recycling and extended producer responsibility, including the EU, China, Brazil, India, as well as state and municipal jurisdictions like California and Sao Paulo Brazil, require labeling, fees and/or reporting to support recycling efforts. Certain of these laws target end-user products. However, the scope of such laws is inconsistent, which increases the complexity of compliance. We continue to work with customers, suppliers and industry groups to monitor and address product-related environmental regulations. While compliance has not historically had a material impact on our financial condition, earnings, or competitive position, there can be no assurance that these evolving laws will not require us to incur significant costs, modify our operations or product designs, or take other actions for compliance. Additional Information AMD was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on May 1, 1969 and became a publicly held company in 1972. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the symbol “AMD”. Our mailing address and executive offices are located at 2485 Augustine Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is (408) 749-4000. For financial information about geographic areas and for segment information with respect to revenues and operating results, refer to the information set forth in Note 4 of our consolidated financial statements. We use a 52- or 53-week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. References in this report to 2025, 2024 and 2023 refer to the fiscal year unless explicitly stated otherwise. AMD, the AMD Arrow logo, 3D V-Cache, Alveo, Athlon, Atrix, CDNA, CoolRunner, EPYC, FidelityFX, FirePro, FreeSync, Geode, Infinity Fabric, AMD Instinct, Kintex, Kria, Opteron, Pensando, Radeon, RDNA, ROCm, Ryzen, Spartan, Threadripper, UltraScale, UltraScale+, Versal, Virtex, Vitis, Vivado, XDNA, Xilinx, Zynq and combinations thereof are trademarks of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Microsoft, Windows, and Xbox One are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. Linux is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and/or other countries. PlayStation is a registered trademark of Sony Interactive Entertainment, Inc. Arm is a registered trademark of Arm Limited (or its subsidiaries) in the United States and/or other countries. 13 Table of Conten t s Other names are for informational purposes only and are used to identify companies and products and may be trademarks of their respective owners. Website Access to Our SEC Filings and Corporate Governance Documents On the Investor Relations pages of our website, http://ir.amd.com, we post links to our filings with the SEC, our Principles of Corporate Governance, our Code of Ethics for our executive officers, all other senior finance executives and certain representatives from legal and internal audit, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and persons performing similar functions, our Global Code of Conduct, which applies to our Board of Directors and all of our employees, and the charters of the committees of our Board of Directors. Our filings with the SEC are posted on our website as soon as reasonably practical after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The SEC website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. You can also obtain copies of these documents by writing to us at: Corporate Secretary, AMD, 2485 Augustine Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, or emailing us at: Corporate.Secretary@amd.com. All of these documents and filings are available free of charge. If we make substantive amendments to our Code of Ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, controller or persons performing similar functions, we intend to disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our website. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in, or considered to be a part of, this report. 14 Table of Conten t s ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, you should consider the interrelationship and compounding effects of two or more risks occurring simultaneously. Risk Factors Summary The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic and Strategic Risks • The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. • The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns. • The demand for our products depends in part on the market conditions in the industries into which they are sold. • The success of our business depends on our ability to introduce products on a timely basis with features and performance levels that provide value to our customers while supporting significant industry transitions. • The loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on us. • Economic and market uncertainty may adversely impact our business and operating results. • Our operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal sales patterns. • If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. • Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. Operational and Technology Risks • We rely on third parties to manufacture our products, and if they are unable to do so on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected. • Essential equipment, materials, substrates or manufacturing processes may not be available to us. • We may fail to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products. • Our revenue from our semi-custom System-on-Chip (SoC) products is dependent upon our semi-custom SoC products being incorporated into customers’ products and the success of those products. • Our products may be subject to security vulnerabilities that could have a material adverse effect on us. • IT outages, data loss, data breaches and cyberattacks could disrupt operations and compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information, be costly to remediate or cause significant damage to our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. • Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could materially adversely affect us. • Our ability to design and introduce new products includes the use of third-party intellectual property. • We depend on third-party companies for the design, manufacture and supply of motherboards, software, memory and other computer platform components to support our business and products. • If we lose Microsoft Corporation’s support for our products or other software vendors do not design and develop software to run on our products, our ability to sell our products could be materially adversely affected. • Our reliance on third-party distributors and add-in-board (AIB) partners subjects us to certain risks. • Our business depends on the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems. • Our products may not be compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware. 15 Table of Conten t s • Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. • We may fail to maintain the efficiency of our supply chain as we respond to changes in customer demand. • We outsource to third parties certain supply-chain logistics functions. • We may be unable to effectively control the sales of our products on the gray market. • Climate change may have an impact on our business. Legal and Regulatory Risks • Government actions and regulations, including but not limited to export regulations, import tariffs and trade protection measures, may limit our ability to export our products to certain customers. • If we cannot realize our deferred tax assets, our results of operations could be adversely affected. • Our business is subject to potential tax liabilities, including as a result of tax regulation changes. • We are party to litigation and may become a party to other claims or litigation. • We are subject to environmental laws, conflict minerals regulations, as well as a variety of other laws or regulations. • Evolving expectations from governments, investors, customers and other stakeholders regarding corporate responsibility matters could result in additional costs, harm to our reputation and a loss of customers. • Issues related to the responsible use of AI may result in reputational, competitive and financial harm and liability. • The agreements governing our notes, our guarantee of Xilinx’s notes and the Revolving Credit Agreement. • We may be required to satisfy financial obligations under guarantees and other commercial commitments. Merger, Acquisition, Divestiture, and Integration Risks • Acquisitions, joint ventures, and/or investments, and the failure to integrate acquired businesses may fail to materialize their anticipated benefits and could disrupt our business. • Any impairment of our tangible, definite-lived intangible or indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, may adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. General Risks • Our worldwide operations are subject to political, legal and economic risks and natural disasters. • We may incur future impairments of our technology license purchases. • Our inability to continue to attract and retain key employees may hinder our business. • Our stock price is subject to volatility. For a more complete discussion of the material risks facing our business, see below. 16 Table of Conten t s Economic and Strategic Risks The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Delivering the latest and best products to market on time is critical to revenue growth. The competitiveness of our products depends on a number of factors including, performance, total cost of ownership, timely product introductions, product quality and reliability, product features and capabilities, energy efficiency (including power consumption and battery life, given their impact on total cost of ownership), size (or form factor), selling price, cost, adherence to industry standards (and the creation of open industry standards), level of integration, software and hardware compatibility, ease of use and functionality of software design tools, completeness of applicable software solutions, security and stability, brand recognition and availability. Competition is expected to remain intense, driven by rapid technological change, evolving standards, shifting customer preferences, product obsolescence, and frequent product launches from both established and new competitors. Some of our competitors may possess stronger market positions, larger customer bases, more design wins, and greater financial, sales, marketing, and distribution resources than us. As a result, they may be able to acquire market share or limit our ability to do so, more effectively capitalize on new market opportunities, and transition their products more efficiently than we can. Some competitors are pursuing alternative computing architectures, such as Arm, which could grow the Arm ecosystem and increase competition in consumer, commercial and data center, reducing demand for our products. Additionally, we may encounter competition from customers who internally develop products to support similar AI workloads to those supported by ours. Our competitors may use their market position and financial resources to market and price their products in a way to dissuade customers from purchasing from us. For example, Intel Corporation (Intel) uses its microprocessor market position to price its products aggressively and target our customers and channel partners with special incentives. These aggressive activities have reduced and may reduce our unit sales and average selling prices for many of our products, adversely affecting our business. Similarly, Nvidia Corporation (Nvidia) leverages its market position in data center GPU, financial resources, and proprietary software ecosystem to promote its systems and influences customers who do business with us. Our competitors’ business practices, including allocation strategies, pricing actions, product mix and introduction schedules, licensing terms, marketing arrangements, product bundling strategies, lack of software inoperability and business acquisitions can limit customers’ ability to choose alternative products, including ours. This may limit our market share and decrease our margins and profitability, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, strategic partnerships, acquisitions and business collaborations by and between our competitors may increase competition and adversely affect our business. For example, in September 2025, Nvidia announced a partnership and investment in Intel to partner on new data center and client platform products. This partnership may result in increased competition and pricing pressure for our products or could prevent us from participating in other opportunities, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and margins. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced severe downturns that have materially adversely affected, and may continue to materially adversely affect, our business in the future. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and has experienced significant downturns, often alongside constant and rapid technological change, wide fluctuations in supply and demand, continuous new product introductions, price erosion and declines in general economic conditions. The growth of AI is further creating pressure on the semiconductor industry to timely design, manufacture and deliver semiconductor products and solutions to meet customer demand for computing power and AI infrastructure. We have incurred substantial losses in previous downturns, due to substantial declines in average selling prices; the cyclical nature of supply and demand imbalances in the semiconductor industry; a decline in demand for end-user products that incorporate our products; and excess inventory levels and periods of inventory adjustment. Such industry-wide fluctuations may materially adversely affect us in the future. Global economic uncertainty and weakness have in the past impacted the semiconductor market as consumers and businesses have deferred purchases, which negatively impacted demand for our products. Our financial performance has been, and may in the future be, negatively affected by these downturns. The growth of our business is also dependent on continued demand for our products from high-growth adjacent emerging global markets. Our ability to be successful in such markets depends in part on our ability to establish adequate local infrastructure, as well as our ability to cultivate and maintain local relationships in these markets. If demand from these markets is below our expectations, sales of our products may decrease, which would have a material adverse effect on us. 17 Table of Conten t s The demand for our products depends in part on the market conditions in the industries into which they are sold. Fluctuations in demand for our products or a market decline in any of these industries could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Industry-wide fluctuations in the computer marketplace have materially adversely affected us in the past and may materially adversely affect us in the future. We offer products that are used in different end markets and the demand for our products can vary among our Data Center, Client, Gaming and Embedded end markets. In our Data Center segment, we offer products that are optimized for generative AI applications and since 2024, we have experienced significant demand for our AI accelerators. The demand for such products will in part depend on the extent to which our customers utilize generative AI solutions in a wide variety of applications, and both the near-term and long-term trajectory of such generative AI solutions is unknown. Some customers in AI markets may be unable to secure access to internal and external infrastructure, including availability of sufficient data center capacity or energy for the buildout of data centers that use our products. In addition, construction delays in the scheduled buildout of data centers could impact the timing of customer demand. Such delays in the buildout of data centers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future growth strategy. Customers may also lack, or be unable to, secure capital to fund their required AI infrastructure and may request alternative financing or deferred‑payment arrangements from vendors and suppliers. These limitations could delay or reduce the demand for our products, which could negatively impact our revenue. Our Client and Gaming segment revenue is focused on the consumer desktop and notebook PC segments and will depend in part on the market’s adoption of AI PCs. We are actively building AI capabilities into all our Client products, such as Ryzen AI PC processors, but there can be no assurance about the rate and pace of adoption of such product offerings. In the past, revenue from the Client and Gaming segment has experienced a decline driven by, among other factors, the adoption of smaller and other form factors, increased competition and changes in replacement cycles. In addition, our GPU revenue in the past has been affected in part by the volatility of the cryptocurrency mining market. If we are unable to manage the risks related to the volatility of the cryptocurrency mining market (including potential actions by global monetary authorities), our GPU business could be materially adversely affected. The success of our semi-custom SoC products in our Client and Gaming segment is dependent on securing customers for our semi-custom design pipeline and consumer market conditions, including the success of game console systems and next generation consoles for Sony and Microsoft. Our Embedded segment primarily includes embedded CPUs, APUs, FPGAs, System on Modules (SOMs) and adaptive SoC products some of which are subject to macroeconomic trends and volatile business conditions. To the extent our embedded customers are faced with higher inventory levels, they may choose to draw down their existing inventory and order less of our products. 18 Table of Conten t s The success of our business depends on our ability to introduce products on a timely basis with features and performance levels that provide value to our customers while supporting and coinciding with significant industry transitions. Our success depends to a significant extent on the development, qualification, implementation and acceptance of new product designs and improvements that provide value to our customers. Our ability to identify industry changes, and adapt our strategy to develop, qualify and distribute, and have manufactured, new products and related technologies to meet evolving industry trends and requirements, at prices acceptable to our customers and on a timely basis, are significant factors in determining our competitiveness in our target markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the evolving needs of industry changes or that our efforts to execute our product roadmap will result in innovative products and technologies that provide value to our customers. If we fail to or are delayed in identifying, developing, qualifying or shipping new products or technologies that provide value to our customers and address these new trends, or if we fail to predict which new form factors, product features preferences or requirements consumers will adopt and adapt our business accordingly, we may lose competitive positioning, which could cause us to lose market share. Although we make substantial investments in research and development, we cannot be certain that we will be able to develop, obtain or successfully implement new products and technologies on a timely basis or that they will be well-received by our customers. Moreover, our investments in new products and technologies involve certain risks and uncertainties and could disrupt our ongoing business. New investments may not generate sufficient revenue and we may incur unanticipated liabilities. We cannot be certain that our ongoing investments in new products and technologies will be successful, will meet our expectations and will not adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results. For example, as part of our pervasive AI strategy, we have a portfolio of hardware products and software tools to allow our customers to develop scalable and pervasive AI solutions. We are actively building AI capabilities into our products, but there can be no assurance about the rate and pace of adoption of such product offerings. In our Data Center segment, we offer products that are optimized for generative AI applications and we have experienced significant demand for our AI accelerators. The demand for such products in part will depend on the extent to which our customers utilize generative AI solutions in a wide variety of applications as both the near-term and long-term trajectory of such generative AI solutions is unknown. If we fail to develop and timely offer or deploy such products and technologies, keep pace with the product offerings of our competitors, or adapt to unexpected changes in industry standards or disruptive technological innovation, our business could be adversely affected. Additionally, our efforts in developing new AI technology solutions are inherently risky and may not always succeed. We may incur significant costs, resources, investments and delays and not achieve a return on investment or capitalize on the opportunities presented by demand for AI solutions. Moreover, while AI adoption is likely to continue and may accelerate, the long-term trajectory of this technological trend is uncertain. Delays in developing, qualifying or shipping new products may cause us to miss our customers’ product design windows or, in some cases, breach contractual obligations. If our products are not selected by our customers in the initial design of their computer systems or products, they are typically excluded until at least the next design cycle. The process of being qualified for inclusion in a customer’s system or product can be lengthy and could cause us to further miss a cycle in the demand of end-users, which could result in a loss of market share and harm our business. We also depend on the timing and success of our customers’ platform launches. If our customers delay their product launches or if our customers do not effectively market their platforms with our products, it could result in a delay in bringing our products to market and cause us to miss a cycle in the demand of end-users, which could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, as market demand requires that products incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis, product pricing declines over the life of a specific product. The introduction of new products and enhancements to existing products is necessary to maintain the overall corporate average selling price. If we are unable to introduce new products with sufficiently high sale prices or to increase unit sales volumes capable of offsetting the reductions in the sale prices of existing products over time, our business could be materially adversely affected. Product transition risks may increase as the computing industry shifts toward shorter launch cycles and a broader range of accelerated computing platforms. Product transitions are complex and as such we may ship both new and prior-generation products concurrently. Customer adoption patterns can vary and while some customers may shift to newer products more quickly and reduce demand for current-generation offerings, other customers may lower their inventory of existing products before purchasing new ones. The increased frequency of product transitions and expansion of our product portfolio heightens the challenges of managing our supply and demand, which could adversely affect our revenue and inventory management. The increasing frequency and complexity of our newly introduced products may also result in unanticipated quality or production issues that could result in product delays. 19 Table of Conten t s The loss of a significant customer may have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our business and we expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a significant part of our revenue and receivables in the future. If one of our key customers decides to stop buying our products, materially reduces its operations or its demand for our products, or has operations that are materially impaired for a significant period of time such that it is unable to receive or utilize our products, or pay its liabilities, our business would be materially adversely affected. Economic and market uncertainty may adversely impact our business and operating results. Uncertain global or regional economic conditions have and may in the future adversely impact our business. Uncertainty in the economic environment or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, such as inflation, fluctuating interest rates, recession, slowing growth, increased unemployment, tighter credit markets, changes or uncertainty in fiscal monetary or trade policy, implementation of new or increased tariffs, retaliatory tariffs by other countries or other trade restrictions, or currency fluctuations, may negatively impact consumer confidence and spending causing our customers to stop or postpone purchases. During challenging economic times, our current or potential future customers may experience cash flow problems and as a result may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products. Additionally, if our customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are unable to secure financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that they owe us. If current or prospective customers default on or delay payments to us, our earnings and cash flow could be adversely impacted. This risk is heightened as we expect that a small number of customers will continue to account for a substantial part of our revenue. Moreover, our key suppliers may reduce their output or become insolvent, thereby adversely impacting our ability to manufacture our products. Adverse changes in economic conditions could increase costs of memory, equipment, materials or substrates and other supply chain expenses. For example, there is currently an industry-wide memory shortage as the demand for such components has outpaced supply. The price of memory has also increased as a result of the shortage. If we are not able to procure a stable supply of materials, including memory, on an ongoing basis and at reasonable costs to meet our production requirements, we could experience a supply shortage or an increase in production costs, which could negatively impact our gross margin and materially adversely affect our business. Our ability to forecast our operating results, make business decisions and execute our business strategy could be adversely impacted by challenging macroeconomic conditions. In addition, uncertain economic conditions could lead to higher borrowing costs and reduced availability of capital and credit markets, making it more difficult for us to raise funds through borrowings or private or public sales of debt or equity securities. An economic downturn or increased uncertainty could also lead to failures of counterparties including financial institutions and insurers, asset impairments and declines in the value of our financial instruments. If a banking institution in which we hold funds fails or is subject to significant adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets, we could be subject to a risk of loss of all or a portion of such uninsured funds or be subject to a delay in accessing all or a portion of such uninsured funds, which in turn could adversely impact our short-term liquidity and ability to meet our operating expense obligations. Our operating results are subject to quarterly and seasonal sales patterns. The profile of our sales may be weighted differently during the year. A large portion of our quarterly sales have historically been made in the last month of the quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue for each financial period difficult and increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition. In addition, our operating results tend to vary seasonally with the markets in which our products are sold. For example, historically, our net revenue has been generally higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year, although market conditions and product transitions could impact these trends. Many of the factors that create and affect quarterly and seasonal trends are beyond our control. If we cannot adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property in the United States and abroad, through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and other measures, we may lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, including confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, copyrights, patents, trademarks and common law rights, such as trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our technology or other intellectual property from third-party infringement or from misappropriation in the United States and abroad. Any patent licensed by us or issued to us could be challenged, invalidated, expire, or circumvented or rights granted thereunder may not provide a competitive advantage to us. 20 Table of Conten t s Furthermore, patent applications that we file may not result in issuance of a patent or, if a patent is issued, the patent may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, others may independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around our patents and other rights. In addition, it is difficult to monitor compliance with, and enforce, our intellectual property on a worldwide basis in a cost-effective manner. In jurisdictions where foreign laws provide less intellectual property protection than afforded in the U.S. and abroad, our technology or other intellectual property may be compromised, and our business would be materially adversely affected. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. We have costs, assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies. As a consequence, movements in exchange rates could cause our foreign currency denominated expenses to increase as a percentage of revenue, affecting our profitability and cash flows. Whenever we believe appropriate, we hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposure to protect against fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We determine our total foreign currency exposure using projections of long-term expenditures for items such as payroll. We cannot assure you that these activities will be effective in reducing foreign exchange rate exposure. Failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, the majority of our product sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the local currency may impact the cost of our products in the local currency for international customers. An appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency could reduce sales of our products. Operational and Technology Risks We rely on third parties to manufacture our products, and if they are unable to do so on a timely basis in sufficient quantities and using competitive technologies, our business could be materially adversely affected. We utilize third-party wafer foundries to fabricate the silicon wafers for all of our products. We rely on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (TSMC) for the production of all wafers for microprocessor and GPU products at 7 nanometer (nm) or smaller nodes, and we rely primarily on GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. (GF) for wafers for microprocessor and GPU products manufactured at process nodes larger than 7 nm. We also utilize TSMC, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. for our integrated circuits (IC) in the form of programmable logic devices. We also rely on third-party manufacturers to assemble, test, mark and pack (ATMP) our products. Our third-party package assembly partners are responsible for packaging technology used to fabricate our products. It is important to have reliable relationships with all of these third-party manufacturing suppliers to ensure adequate product supply to respond to customer demand. We cannot guarantee that these manufacturers or our other third-party manufacturing suppliers will be able to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements. If we experience supply constraints from our third-party manufacturing suppliers, we may be required to allocate the reduced quantities of affected products amongst our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our relationships with these customers and on our financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to meet customer demand due to fluctuating or late supply from our manufacturing suppliers, it could result in lost sales and have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, if TSMC is not able to manufacture wafers for our microprocessor and GPU products at 7 nm or smaller nodes and our newest IC products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 21 Table of Conten t s We do not have long-term commitment contracts with some of our third-party manufacturing suppliers. We obtain many of these manufacturing services on a purchase order basis and these manufacturers are not required to provide us with any specified minimum quantity of product beyond the quantities in an existing purchase order. Accordingly, we depend on these suppliers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis and at acceptable prices. The manufacturers we use also fabricate wafers and ATMP products for other companies, including certain of our competitors. They could choose to prioritize capacity for other customers, increase the prices that they charge us on short notice, require onerous prepayments, or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we overestimate our customer demand or experience a decrease in customer demand, either could result in excess inventory and an increase in our production costs. We are party to a wafer supply agreement with GF where GF will provide a minimum annual capacity allocation to us and set pricing through 2026. If our actual wafer requirements are less than the number of wafers required to meet the applicable annual wafer purchase target, we could have excess inventory or higher inventory unit costs, both of which may adversely impact our gross margin and our results of operations. Other risks associated with our dependence on third-party manufacturers include limited control over delivery schedules, yield, cycle times, quality assurance, price increases, lack of capacity in periods of excess demand, misappropriation of our intellectual property, dependence on several subcontractors, and limited ability to manage inventory and parts. Moreover, if any of our third-party manufacturers (or their subcontractors) suffer any damage to facilities, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, water shortages, or high heat events, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties, are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, or experience uncertain environmental, social, atmospheric or natural, economic or political circumstances or conditions, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions. For example, in the first quarter of 2024, we experienced some inventory loss due to an incident at a contract manufacturer. If we are unable to secure sufficient or reliable supply of products, our ability to meet customer demand may be adversely affected and this could materially affect our business. If we transition the production of some of our products to new manufacturers, we may experience delayed product introductions, lower yields or poorer performance of our products. If we experience problems with product quality or are unable to secure sufficient capacity from a particular third-party manufacturer, or if we for other reasons cease utilizing one of those manufacturers, we may be unable to timely secure an alternative supply for any specific product. We could experience significant delays in the shipment of our products if we are required to find alternative third-party manufacturers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are party to two ATMP joint ventures (collectively, the ATMP JVs) with affiliates of Tongfu Microelectronics Co., Ltd. The majority of our ATMP services are provided by the ATMP JVs and there is no guarantee that the ATMP JVs will be able to fulfill our long-term ATMP requirements. If we are unable to meet customer demand due to fluctuating or late supply from the ATMP JVs, it could result in lost sales and have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 Table of Conten t s If essential equipment, materials, substrates or manufacturing processes are not available to manufacture our products, we could be materially adversely affected. We may purchase equipment, materials and substrates for use by our back-end manufacturing service providers from a number of suppliers and our operations depend upon obtaining deliveries of adequate supplies of equipment and materials of acceptable quality on a timely basis. Our third-party suppliers also depend on the same timely delivery of adequate quantities of equipment and materials of acceptable quality in the manufacture of our products. In addition, as many of our products increase in technical complexity, we rely on our third-party suppliers to update their processes in order to continue meeting our back-end manufacturing needs. Certain equipment and materials that are used in the manufacture of our products are available only from a limited number of suppliers, or in some cases, a sole supplier. We also depend on a limited number of suppliers to provide the majority of certain types of IC packages for our microprocessors, including our APU products. Similarly, certain non-proprietary materials or components such as memory, printed circuit boards (PCBs), interposers, substrates and capacitors used in the manufacture of our products are currently available from only a limited number of suppliers. For example, there is currently an industry-wide memory shortage as the demand for such components has outpaced supply. The price of memory has also increased as a result of the shortage. If we are unable to procure a stable supply of memory, equipment, materials or substrates of acceptable quality on an ongoing basis and at reasonable costs to meet our production requirements, we could experience a shortage in memory, equipment, materials or substrate supply or an increase in production costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have long-term purchase commitments and prepayment arrangements with some of our suppliers. If the delivery of such supply is delayed or does not occur for any reason, it could materially impact our ability to procure and process the required volume of supply to meet customer demand. Conversely, if we overestimate our customer demand or experience a decrease in customer demand, either because customers cancel orders or choose to purchase from our competitors, it could result in excess inventory and an increase in our production costs, particularly since we have prepayment arrangements with certain suppliers. Because some of the equipment and materials that we and our third-party manufacturers purchase are complex, it is sometimes difficult to substitute one equipment or materials supplier for another. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supply or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Also, some of these materials and components may be subject to rapid changes in price, quality and availability. Interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. Dependence on a sole supplier or a limited number of suppliers exacerbates these risks. If we are unable to procure certain of these materials for our back-end manufacturing operations, or our third-party manufacturers are unable to procure materials for manufacturing our products, our business would be materially adversely affected. 23 Table of Conten t s Failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact our results of operations. Semiconductor manufacturing yields are a result of product design, process technology and packaging technology, which is typically proprietary to the manufacturer, and low yields can result from design failures, packaging technology failures, process technology failures or a combination of some or all of these. Our third-party manufacturers are responsible for the process technologies used to fabricate silicon wafers. If our third-party manufacturers experience manufacturing inefficiencies or encounter disruptions, errors or difficulties during production, we may fail to achieve acceptable yields or we may experience product delivery delays. We cannot be certain that our third-party manufacturers will be able to develop, expand, obtain or successfully implement leading-edge manufacturing process or packaging technologies needed to manufacture future generations of our products profitably or on a timely basis or that our competitors will not develop new technologies, products or processes earlier. Moreover, during periods when our third-party manufacturers are implementing new process or packaging technologies, their manufacturing facilities may not be fully productive. A substantial delay in the technology transitions to smaller process technologies could have a material adverse effect on us, particularly if our competitors transition to more cost effective technologies before us. For example, we are presently focusing our 7 nm and lower product microprocessor and GPU portfolio on TSMC’s processes. If TSMC is not able to manufacture wafers for our products at 7 nm or smaller nodes in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, we rely on TSMC, UMC and our other foundries to produce wafers with competitive performance attributes for our IC products. Therefore, the foundries, particularly TSMC which manufactures our newest IC products, must be able to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. Any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in per unit costs, which would adversely impact our gross margin and/or force us to allocate our reduced product supply amongst our customers, which could harm our relationships and reputation with our customers and materially adversely affect our business. Our revenue from our semi-custom SoC products is dependent upon our semi-custom SoC products being incorporated into customers’ products and the success of those products. The revenue that we receive from our semi-custom SoC products is in the form of non-recurring engineering fees charged to third parties for design and development services and revenue received in connection with sales of our semi-custom SoC products to these third parties. As a result, our ability to generate revenue from our semi-custom products depends on our ability to secure customers for our semi-custom design pipeline, our customers’ desire to pursue the project and our semi-custom SoC products being incorporated into those customers’ products. Any revenue from sales of our semi-custom SoC products is directly related to sales of the third-party’s products and reflective of their success in the market. Moreover, we have no control over the marketing efforts of these third parties, and we cannot make any assurances that sales of their products will be successful in current or future years. Consequently, the semi-custom SoC product revenue expected by us may not be fully realized and our operating results may be adversely affected. Our products may be subject to security vulnerabilities that could have a material adverse effect on us. The products that we sell are complex and have been and may in the future be subject to security vulnerabilities that could result in, among other things, the loss, corruption, theft or misuse of confidential data or system performance issues. Our efforts to prevent and address security vulnerabilities may decrease performance, be only partially effective or not successful at all. We may depend on vendors to create mitigations to their technology that we incorporate into our products and they may delay or decline to make such mitigations. We may also depend on third parties, such as customers and end-users, to deploy our mitigations alone or as part of their own mitigations, and they may delay, decline or modify the implementation of such mitigations. Our relationships with our customers could be adversely affected as some of our customers may stop purchasing our products, reduce or delay future purchases of our products, or use competing products. Any of these actions by our customers could adversely affect our revenue. We have and may in the future be subject to claims and litigation related to security vulnerabilities. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities of our products may subject us to adverse publicity, damage to our brand and reputation, and could materially harm our business or results of operations. 24 Table of Conten t s IT outages, data loss, data breaches and cyberattacks could disrupt operations and compromise our intellectual property or other sensitive information, be costly to remediate or cause significant damage to our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Our business relies on technology hardware, software, cloud services, infrastructure, networks and systems (collectively, IT Systems). We own and manage some IT Systems but also rely on critical third-party IT Systems, products and services. In the ordinary course of business, we and various third-party providers and business partners process and maintain sensitive data, including personal information about workers, customers and others, as well as intellectual property and proprietary or confidential information relating to our business and that of our customers and business partners (collectively, Confidential Data). Maintaining the availability, integrity and security of our IT Systems and Confidential Data is critical to our business and reputation. While we and others have implemented various controls and defenses, AMD and companies like AMD and our vendors and customers have been and are increasingly subject to cybersecurity attacks, risks and threats. Risks and threat factors range in sophistication from negligent or bad acts by individuals, hackers or insiders, to ransom gangs and state-sponsored attackers. Cyber threats may be generic, or they may be custom-crafted against our IT Systems or supply chain. The increased prevalence of remote working arrangements at AMD and our providers present additional operational risks and attack vectors to our IT Systems. Our IT Systems and Confidential Data are vulnerable to a range of cybersecurity risks and threats, including malicious code that is added to widely available open-source software, compromised commercial software or security vulnerabilities in our products or systems, or those of a third party, that are being used by attackers prior to mitigations being put in place, such as zero-day attacks. Cyberattacks have and may come into our IT Systems through the compromise of users’ access credentials or those of third-party IT systems or untrusted assets. Users’ access credentials can be compromised by phishing, vishing, smishing, multi-factor authentication (MFA) prompt bombing, hacking, or other social engineering, cybersecurity, theft activities, or unintentional disclosure due to a human error. Threat actors are also increasingly using tools and techniques that circumvent controls, evade detection, and remove forensic evidence, which means that we and others may be unable to implement adequate preventative measures against cyberattacks or to anticipate, detect, deflect, contain or recover from them in a timely or effective manner. As AI capabilities improve and are increasingly adopted, we may see more sophisticated threats created through the use of AI technology to launch more automated, targeted and coordinated cyberattacks. These attacks could be crafted with an AI tool to directly attack IT Systems with increased speed and/or efficiency than a human threat actor or create more effective phishing emails. In addition, the threat could be introduced from the result of our or our customers and business partners incorporating the output of an AI tool that includes a threat, such as introducing malicious code by incorporating AI generated source code. We leverage AI tools and systems to help support our internal functions and operations. These systems are increasingly vulnerable to cybersecurity threats, which can significantly impact data security. Our network and storage applications, as well as those of our customers, business partners, and third-party providers, may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers or breached due to operator error, malfeasance or other system disruptions. Cyberattacks that breach our security measures, or those of our third-party service providers, customers or business partners, could result in any or all of the following, which individually or collectively could materially adversely affect our financial condition and competitive position; unauthorized access to, misuse or disclosure of Confidential Data (such as intellectual property, sensitive business information or personally identifiable information (PII)); reputational harm and/or diminution in our competitiveness; loss of existing and/or future customers; litigation and/or regulatory investigations or enforcement; significant remediation, restoration and compliance costs; and the diversion of management’s attention and key information technology resources. In addition, many governments have enacted and are continuing to enact strict privacy and security laws, such as the UK’s and European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA), as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which provide for fines, penalties, and in the case of the CCPA and similar legislation, the basis for private claims for certain types of data breaches. We anticipate ongoing and increasing costs related to enhancing and implementing information security controls, including costs related to upgrading application, computer, and network security components; training workers to maintain and monitor our security controls; investigating, responding to and remediating any data security breach, and addressing any related litigation or regulatory proceedings; mitigating reputational harm; and complying with external regulations. 25 Table of Conten t s Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could materially adversely affect us. We typically sell our products pursuant to individual purchase orders. We generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers or minimum purchase requirements except that orders generally must be for standard pack quantities. Generally, our customers may cancel orders for standard products more than 30 days prior to shipment without incurring significant fees. We base our inventory levels in part on customers’ estimates of demand for their products, which may not accurately predict the quantity or type of our products that our customers will want in the future or ultimately end up purchasing. Our ability to forecast demand is further complicated when our products are sold indirectly through downstream channel distributors and customers, as our forecasts for demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties throughout the downstream channel. To the extent we fail to forecast demand and product mix accurately or are unable to increase production or secure sufficient capacity and there is a mismatch between supply and demand for our products, it could limit our ability to meet customer demand and have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our markets are characterized by short product lifecycles, which can lead to rapid obsolescence and price erosion. As product complexity has increased, manufacturing lead times have extended and longer production cycles, combined with short product cycles, increase the risk that customer demand for products may change between wafer order and finished good availability, which could result in significant mismatches between supply and demand. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. We may build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, and the cancellation or deferral of product orders or overproduction due to failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory and an adverse effect on gross margins. Our customers may also experience a shortage of, or delay in receiving certain components to build their products, which in turn may affect the demand for or the timing of our products. In April 2025, the U.S. government implemented a new license requirement for the export of certain semiconductor products to China (including Hong Kong and Macau) and D5 countries, or to companies headquartered in or with an ultimate parent located in such countries. This restriction impacts our AMD Instinct™ MI308 products. As a result of the restriction, we incurred approximately $800 million in inventory and related charges in the second quarter of 2025. We applied for and were granted some licenses by the U.S. government that allow us to ship our MI308 products to certain China-based customers. Sales of our MI308 products into China depend on customer demand, China’s import control rules and our ability to obtain licenses. As such, our revenues and results of operation could be negatively affected. Excess or obsolete inventory have resulted in, and may in the future result in, write-downs of the value of our inventory. Factors that may result in excess or obsolete inventory, a reduction in the average selling price, or a reduction in our gross margin include: a sudden or significant decrease in demand for our products; a production or design defect in our products; a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements; a failure to accurately estimate customer demand for our products, including for our older products as our new products are introduced; or our competitors introducing new products or taking aggressive pricing actions. Our ability to design and introduce new products in a timely manner includes the use of third-party intellectual property. In the design and development of new and enhanced products, we rely on third-party intellectual property such as development and testing tools for software and hardware. Furthermore, certain product features may rely on intellectual property acquired from third parties that we incorporate into our software or hardware. The design requirements necessary to meet customer demand for more features and greater functionality from semiconductor products may exceed the capabilities of the third-party intellectual property or development or testing tools available to us. If the third-party intellectual property that we use becomes unavailable, is not available with required functionality or performance in the time frame, manufacturing technology, or price point needed for our new products or fails to produce designs or functionality that meet customer demands, or laws are adopted that affect our use of third party intellectual property in certain regions or products, our business could be materially adversely affected. 26 Table of Conten t s We depend on third-party companies for the design, manufacture and supply of motherboards, software, memory and other computer platform components to support our business and products. We depend on third-party companies for the design, manufacture and supply of motherboards, graphics cards, software (e.g., BIOS, operating systems, drivers, AI models or tools), memory and other components that we use to design, support and sell, and our customers utilize to support and/or use our product offerings. We also rely on our AIB partners to support our products. In addition, our microprocessors are not designed to function with motherboards and chipsets designed to work with Intel microprocessors. If the designers, manufacturers, AIBs and suppliers of motherboards, graphics cards, software, memory and other components cease or reduce their design, quality, manufacture or production of current or future products that are based on, utilized in, or support our products, or laws are adopted that result in the same, our business could be materially adversely affected. If we lose Microsoft Corporation’s support for our products or other software vendors do not design and develop software to run on our products, our ability to sell our products could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to innovate beyond the x86 instruction set controlled by Intel depends partially on Microsoft designing and developing its operating systems to run on or support our x86-based microprocessor products. With respect to our graphics products, we depend in part on Microsoft to design and develop its operating system to run on or support our graphics products. Similarly, the success of our products in the market, such as our APU products, is dependent on independent software providers designing and developing software to run on our products. If Microsoft does not continue to design and develop its operating systems so that they work with our x86 instruction sets or does not continue to develop and maintain their operating systems to support our graphics products, independent software providers may forego designing their software applications to take advantage of our innovations and customers may not purchase PCs with our x86 products. In addition, some software drivers licensed for use with our x86 products are certified by Microsoft. If Microsoft did not certify a driver, or if we otherwise fail to retain the support of Microsoft or other software vendors, our ability to market our x86 products would be materially adversely affected. Our reliance on third-party distributors and AIB partners subjects us to certain risks. We market and sell our products directly and through third-party distributors and AIB partners pursuant to agreements that can generally be terminated for convenience by either party upon prior notice. These agreements are non-exclusive and permit both our distributors and AIB partners to offer our competitors’ products. We are dependent on our distributors and AIB partners to supplement our direct marketing and sales efforts. If any significant distributor or AIB partner or a substantial number of our distributors or AIB partners terminated their relationship with us, decided to market our competitors’ products over our products or decided not to market our products at all, our ability to bring our products to market would be impacted and we would be materially adversely affected. We extend credit to certain of our distributors and AIB partners. If we are unable to collect accounts receivable from our significant distributors and/or AIB partners or incur higher allowances for credit losses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to manage the risks related to the use of our third-party distributors and AIB partners or offer appropriate incentives to focus them on the sale of our products, our business could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, distributors and AIB partners typically maintain an inventory of our products. In most instances, our agreements with distributors protect their inventory of our products against price reductions, as well as provide return rights for any product that we have removed from our price book that is less than 12 months older than the manufacturing date. Some agreements with our distributors also contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. Our agreements with AIB partners protect their inventory of our products against price reductions. In the event of a significant decline in the price of our products, the price protection rights we offer would materially adversely affect us because our revenue and corresponding gross margin would decline. 27 Table of Conten t s Our business depends on the proper functioning of our internal business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls. We rely upon a number of internal business processes and information systems to support key business functions, and the efficient operation of these processes and systems is critical to our business. Our business processes and information systems need to be sufficiently scalable to support the growth of our business and may require modifications or upgrades that expose us to a number of operational risks. As such, our information systems will continually evolve and adapt in order to meet our business needs. These changes may be costly and disruptive to our operations and could impose substantial demands on management time. These changes may also require changes in our information systems, modification of internal control procedures and significant training of employees and third-party resources. We continuously work on simplifying our information systems and applications through consolidation and standardization efforts. There can be no assurance that our business and operations will not experience any disruption in connection with this transition. Our information technology systems, and those of third-party information technology providers or business partners, may also be vulnerable to damage or disruption caused by circumstances beyond our control including catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, viruses or malware, cyberattacks, insider threat attacks, unauthorized system or data modifications, data breaches and computer system or network failures, exposing us to significant cost, reputational harm and disruption or damage to our business. In addition, as our IT environment continues to evolve, we are embracing new ways of communicating and sharing data internally and externally with customers and partners using methods such as mobility and the cloud that can promote business efficiency. However, these practices can also result in a more distributed IT environment, making it more difficult for us to maintain visibility and control over internal and external users, and meet scalability and administrative requirements. If our security controls cannot keep pace with the speed of these changes or if we are not able to meet regulatory and compliance requirements, our business would be materially adversely affected. If our products are not compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware, we could be materially adversely affected. Our products may not be fully compatible with some or all industry-standard software and hardware. Further, we may be unsuccessful in correcting any such compatibility problems in a timely manner. If our customers are unable to achieve compatibility with software or hardware, we could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the mere announcement of an incompatibility problem relating to our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. Products as complex as those we offer may contain defects or failures when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements to existing products are released. We cannot assure you that, despite our testing procedures, errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments in the future, which could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, material recall and replacement costs, loss of revenue, writing down the inventory of defective products, the diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, defending against litigation related to defective products or related liabilities, including property damage, personal injury, damage to our reputation in the industry and loss of data or intangible property, and could adversely affect our relationships with our customers. In addition, we may have difficulty identifying the end customers of the defective products in the field. As a result, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to correct defects. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect our business. We could be subject to potential product liability claims if one of our products causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury, whether tangible or intangible. Claims may be made by consumers or others selling our products, and we may be subject to claims against us even if an alleged injury is due to the actions of others. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. 28 Table of Conten t s If we fail to maintain the efficiency of our supply chain as we respond to changes in customer demand for our products, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to meet customer demand for our products depends, in part, on our ability to deliver the products our customers want on a timely basis. Accordingly, we rely on our supply chain for the manufacturing, distribution and fulfillment of our products. As we continue to grow our business, expand to high-growth adjacent markets, acquire new customers and strengthen relationships with existing customers, the efficiency of our supply chain will become increasingly important because many of our customers tend to have specific requirements for particular products, geographic requirements, and specific time-frames in which they require delivery of these products. If we are unable to consistently deliver the right products to our customers on a timely basis in the right locations, our customers may reduce the quantities they order from us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We outsource to third parties certain supply-chain logistics functions, including portions of our product distribution, transportation management and information technology support services. We rely on third-party providers to operate our regional product distribution centers and to manage the transportation of our work-in-process and finished products among our facilities, to our third-party manufacturers and to our customers. In addition, we rely on third parties to provide certain information technology services to us, including help desk support, desktop application services, business and software support applications, server and storage administration, data center operations, database administration and voice, video and remote access. We cannot guarantee that these providers will fulfill their respective responsibilities in a timely manner in accordance with the contract terms, in which case our internal operations and the distribution of our products to our customers could be materially adversely affected. Also, we cannot guarantee that our contracts with these third-party providers will be renewed, in which case we would have to transition these functions in-house or secure new providers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business if the transition is not executed appropriately. Our inability to effectively control the sales of our products on the gray market could have a material adverse effect on us. We market and sell our products through a global, multi-tier network of authorized distributors, resellers and OEMs. Despite programmatic controls, audits and contractual restrictions, our pricing programs may be misused, and unauthorized resellers or unauthorized resale can occur on the “gray market”. Gray market activities could result in customer satisfaction issues because any time products are purchased outside our authorized distribution channels there is a risk that our customers are buying counterfeit or substandard products, including products that may have been altered, mishandled or damaged, or are used products represented as new. These substandard gray market products may have higher-than-expected failure rates and as a result, we may face brand protection risks, reputational harm or unauthorized warranty claims. Gray market products result in shadow inventory that is not visible to us, making it difficult to forecast demand accurately. Also, when gray market products enter the market, we and our distribution channels compete with these heavily discounted gray market products, which adversely affects demand for our products and negatively impacts our margins. We also face risks of product diversion into restricted markets, including reexports or sales to prohibited end users/end uses. Products acquired on the gray market or through other unauthorized channels are at higher risk of being re-sold to prohibited end-users, misused, and deployed for uses that do not align with AMD’s ethics, values or compliance standards. Despite our compliance programs and procedures for mitigating these risks through customer and transaction screening, distributor audits, law enforcement and NGO cooperation and export control compliance (including licensing where required), we may not fully eliminate these risks. 29 Table of Conten t s Climate change may have an impact on our business. Climate change may adversely affect our business, as well as that of our suppliers and customers. Increasing frequency and severity of natural disasters and climate-related events could impact the major regions where we have operations and could disrupt our business and that of our customers and suppliers. Our headquarters and some of our operations and facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes and tsunamis, wildfires, extreme storms, flooding, extreme heat, drought, freezing, tropical cyclones and other natural disasters. Water and energy availability and reliability in the regions where we have facilities and where our suppliers and customers have operations is important to our business. Certain natural disasters could disrupt our operations and our suppliers’ or customers’ operations, including by disrupting, the availability of energy or water necessary for the operations of our business or those of our suppliers and customers. Such disruptions could interrupt our supply chain, delay manufacturing and product shipments, lead to a loss of business and higher costs to maintain or restore operations, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Supply chain delays resulting from climate change related disruptions may lead to contractual disputes, litigation and increasing costs. Data centers depend on access to clean water and reliable energy. Customers’ ability to obtain sufficient energy capacity to meet demand is a complicated, multi-year process that involves regulatory and technical challenges. If customers cannot secure sufficient power or water, or experience outages or shortages of these resources, they may be unable to expand their data center capacity and may reduce or stop purchases from us. Although we maintain property, casualty, and other insurance, coverage varies by type, availability and cost. Some of our policies have large deductibles and broad exclusions. Additionally, our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. Losses not covered by insurance may be significant, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and the business of our suppliers and customers may also be subject to current and future climate-related regulations, contract terms and lawsuits. Increased regulations on carbon taxes, greenhouse gas emissions, fuel or energy taxes will likely result in greater costs, such as through carbon pricing impact on utilities or through requiring greater renewable energy purchases than otherwise planned. Our supply chain manufacturing suppliers may incur increased costs of doing business should they be affected by new climate-related expectations such as those affecting abatement equipment, renewable energy, and/or alter production processes and materials selections. The additional compliance costs incurred by our suppliers may be passed on to us and result in greater indirect costs to us. These costs and restrictions could materially harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses, damaging our reputation for actual or perceived non-compliance, or requiring us to alter our operations and products. The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy and the technology industry are unclear but could be severe. Additionally, we are or expect to be subject to various new or proposed climate-related disclosure requirements and we expect to incur costs and resources in order to comply. Failure to comply with such reporting obligations may result in enforcement actions, litigation or reputational harm and could have a material adverse effect on us. 30 Table of Conten t s Legal and Regulatory Risks Government actions and regulations such as export regulations, import tariffs, and trade protection measures may limit our ability to export our products to certain customers. We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) administered by the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) of the U.S. Department of Commerce, which restrict the export of certain products and technologies to certain countries, including China, Russia, and Belarus, among others. These restrictions may limit our ability to sell certain products or technologies in these markets or to certain customers. Evolving U.S. government policy toward semiconductor exports, particularly in the context of national security and foreign policy priorities could adversely affect our business. In October 2023, the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) of the United States Department of Commerce issued requirements for the export of certain advanced computing items to a party headquartered in, or with an ultimate parent headquartered in, any of Country Groups D1, D4 or D5, including China (a D5 Country). These controls prevent us from shipping certain AMD Instinct™ integrated circuits and certain AMD Versal™ FPGAs to China, or to customers outside of the United States who are headquartered in—or whose ultimate parent is headquartered in—a D5 Country, without a license. BIS may not timely update performance-based licensing thresholds in the 2023 export requirements and/or may issue new licensing requirements and regulatory controls in the future. Accordingly, there is a risk that new products which exceed current licensing thresholds, or even those below current licensing thresholds, may not succeed because BIS could determine they are subject to licensing requirements. U.S. export restrictions on semiconductors and semiconductor technology to China and Chinese customers negatively impact our ability to sell to customers in China and make it easier for our China-based competitors to develop and sell their own solutions and reduce the need for our products. In April 2025, the U.S. government implemented a new license requirement for the export of certain semiconductor products to a D5 Country, and to companies headquartered in, or with an ultimate parent located in such D5 Country. This restriction impacts our AMD Instinct™ MI308 products. As a result of the restriction, we incurred approximately $800 million in inventory and related charges in the second quarter of 2025. We applied for and were granted some licenses by the U.S. government that allow us to ship our MI308 products to certain China-based customers. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2025, we began shipping products and reversed approximately $360 million of the charges recorded earlier in the year. Sales of our MI308 products into China depend on customer demand, China’s import control rules and our ability to obtain licenses. In August 2025, U.S. government officials expressed an expectation that the U.S. government will receive 15% of the revenue generated from licensed MI308 sales to China. However, to date, the U.S. government has not published a regulation establishing such requirement. Any request for a percentage of the revenue by the U.S. government could subject us to litigation, increase our costs and harm our competitive position and benefit competitors that are not subject to such arrangements. Additional export restrictions imposed in the future may not only impact our ability to serve China but could also impact our ability to serve other markets. If any new export controls impact more of our products, we may be unable to sell our inventory of such products and we may further incur inventory and related charges since there is no assurance that the U.S. government will grant licenses at all or in a timely manner. Even if we are granted licenses, the licenses may be temporary or could impose onerous conditions for us or our customers. If we are not granted licenses, we may be unable to develop a competitive product for the China market that is not subject to licensing requirements. Limits on sales of our offerings in the China market due to export controls could impact our competitive position compared to domestic Chinese competitors and other companies or competitors not subject to the same restrictions. As such, we could lose market position and our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely impacted. In January 2025, BIS issued a final rule, commonly referred to as the “AI Diffusion Rule,” that would have imposed new restrictions on the export, reexport and in-country transfer of certain advanced semiconductor devices and technology. In May 2025, BIS announced its intention to rescind the AI Diffusion Rule, publish a regulation formalizing the rescission, and issue replacement rules in the future. The replacement rules may limit our ability to engage in certain business transactions, require new export licenses, delay shipments, or necessitate changes in our compliance processes and product designs to ensure regulatory compliance. Additionally, BIS’s announced plans introduce uncertainty as we evaluate whether specific products, technologies, or software fall within the scope of any new restrictions, and whether BIS will grant licenses in a timely matter or at all. Compliance with the planned or existing rules could result in increased costs, disruption of key customer and supplier relationships, loss of competitive positioning in international markets or reputational harm. 31 Table of Conten t s The implementation or increase of any tariffs, trade protection measures or restrictions, or retaliatory actions from foreign governments could result in lost sales and adversely impact our reputation and business. The U.S. government has instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that include higher tariffs on imports into the U.S. and other government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries where we conduct our business. Such changes to U.S. trade policy have the potential to adversely impact the U.S. economy or sectors thereof and could significantly impact our business, in particular the import of products used in our business that are manufactured outside the U.S. Any retaliatory actions by affected countries and foreign governments could result in tariffs, trade protection measures or other restrictions imposed on our current and future products. Our customers’ costs of doing business may increase or their sales may be negatively affected. As such, customer demand for our products may decline, which could adversely impact our ability to generate revenue and result in inventory impairment changes. For instance, tariffs on hardware required for data centers could raise costs for our customers, potentially causing them to delay or cancel AI infrastructure investments. Further, to the extent that the United States, China or other countries seek to promote products that are produced domestically or reduce their dependence on products from another country, they may implement regulations or policies that may negatively affect our business. The United States and other countries’ export control regulations continue to focus on targeting semiconductors associated with AI, including GPUs and associated products and services, by restricting or prohibiting their unlicensed sale or supply to U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities. The United States has imposed unilateral controls restricting GPUs and associated products, and is likely to further adopt other unilateral or multilateral controls. The scope and application of such controls have been and may continue to be broad, which may prohibit us from exporting or providing access to our products to customers in one or more markets, including but not limited to China, and could negatively impact our manufacturing, testing and warehousing locations, or could impose other conditions that limit our ability to meet demand abroad. If export controls targeting semiconductors associated with AI including GPUs and associated products and services are further tightened, or the classification of our products under those controls’ changes, our ability to export our technology, products or services could be further restricted. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage if our competitors are not subject to the same or similar restrictions or classifications. Such export controls have, and may in the future, subject downstream recipients of our products to additional restrictions on the use, resale, repair or transfer of our products and may have a material adverse effect on us. New export control restrictions may adversely impact the ability of our research and development teams located outside of the United States from executing our product roadmaps in a timely manner or at all. In addition, deemed export restrictions could further affect our ability to provide services or develop products in the United States. Continued changes to export control regulations that we are subject to, or changes to their interpretation and enforcement, could result in greater compliance costs and other compliance burdens on our business and our customers which could adversely impact our business. Export controls have and may continue to encourage customers in China and other markets subject to those controls to pursue alternatives to U.S. semiconductors for their product designs to limit compliance burdens and potential impact on their product roadmaps. From time to time, governments provide incentives or make other investments that could benefit and give a competitive advantage to our competitors. Government incentives may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If our competitors can benefit from such government incentives and we cannot, it could strengthen our competitors’ relative position and have a material adverse effect on our business. 32 Table of Conten t s We have equity interests in two joint ventures (collectively, the THATIC JV) with Higon Information Technology Co., Ltd. (THATIC), a third-party Chinese entity. In June 2019, BIS added certain Chinese entities to the Entity List, including THATIC and the THATIC JV. Since that time, the United States administration has called for changes to domestic and foreign policy, including policies with respect to China and Russia. Specifically, United States-China trade relations remain uncertain as the United States continues to add more Chinese companies to the Entity List and introduce new regulations on advanced computing, semiconductor manufacturing, and AI, while China has imposed retaliatory tariffs. Moreover, as the U.S. government continues adding companies to the Entity List, our supply chain may be negatively impacted as we may be required to suspend purchasing from such suppliers or selling to such customers or otherwise unable to fulfill our contractual obligations to them. For example, in September 2025, BIS issued a new rule designating any entity that is at least 50% owned by one or more entities on the Entity List will be subject to Entity List restrictions and this rule similarly applies to entities at least 50% owned by listed “military end users” and certain sanctioned parties. In October 2025, the U.S. government announced that it planned to suspend enforcement of this new rule for one year. However, the restrictions can be reimposed at any time. These restrictive governmental actions and any similar measures that may be imposed on U.S. companies by other governments, especially in light of ongoing trade tensions with U.S. trading partners, will likely limit or prevent us from doing business with certain of our customers or suppliers and harm our ability to compete effectively or otherwise negatively affect our ability to sell our products. If we were ever found to have violated these laws or similar applicable non-U.S. laws, even if the violation occurred without our knowledge, we may be subject to penalties, which could adversely affect our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition. We may, from time to time, receive technical data from third parties that is subject to the International Traffic and Arms Regulations (ITAR), which are administered by the U.S. Department of State. Export Administration Regulation (EAR) governs the export and re-export of certain AMD products, including FPGAs, as well as the transfer of related technologies or provision of services, whether in the U.S. or abroad. We are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet EAR and ITAR requirements. An inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when or pursuant to which conditions they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. When we file license applications or Notification Advanced Computing (NAC) exception notices we have no assurance that BIS will grant any exemptions or licenses or that the BIS will act on the filings in a timely manner. Even if BIS grants a requested license, the license may come with burdensome conditions that we cannot or decide not to fulfill. In addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. If we cannot realize our deferred tax assets, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our deferred tax assets include tax credit carryforwards that can be used to offset taxable income and reduce income taxes payable in future periods. Each quarter, we consider both positive and negative evidence to determine whether all or a portion of the deferred tax assets are more likely than not to be realized. If we determine that some or all of our deferred tax assets are not realizable, it could result in a material expense in the period in which this determination is made which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to potential tax liabilities, and exposure to greater-than-anticipated income tax liabilities as a result of changes in tax rules and regulations, changes in interpretation of tax rules and regulations, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits, could affect our effective tax rates, financial condition, and results of operations. We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to income tax, indirect tax or other tax claims in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. Any changes to tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our tax obligations and effective tax rate. Our income tax obligations could be affected by many factors, including, but not limited to, changes to our corporate operating structure, intercompany arrangements, and tax planning strategies. 33 Table of Conten t s Our income tax expense is computed based on tax rates enacted at the time of the respective financial period. Our future effective tax rates, financial condition and results from operations could be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, by changes in the tax rules and regulations or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets. Many countries have implemented legislation and other guidance to align their international tax rules with the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations and action plan that aim to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy, including changes to cross-border tax, transfer pricing documentation rules, and nexus-based tax incentive practices. The OECD is also continuing discussions surrounding fundamental changes in allocation of profits among tax jurisdictions in which companies do business, as well as the implementation of a global minimum tax (namely “Pillar One” and “Pillar Two”). In January 2026, the OECD released a "side-by-side" package introducing new safe harbors and providing an exemption for U.S.-based multinational companies from parts of the global minimum tax framework. This guidance is intended to simplify compliance with a permanent simplified Effective Tax Rate safe harbor, a one-year extension of the transitional Country-by-Country Reporting safe harbor and reinforce the role of Qualified Domestic Minimum Top-up Taxes (QDMTT). While these rules are generally favorable to the Company, they need to be adopted by each country to be considered enacted for financial accounting purposes. As new guidance becomes available in each country, we will continue to evaluate the impact of the proposed and enacted legislative changes to our effective tax rate and cash flows. In addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by domestic and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from the current examinations. There can be no assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our effective tax rates, financial condition, and results of operations. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate income tax, indirect tax, or other tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure that the final determination of any tax audits or litigation will not be materially different from that which is reflected in historical tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit, assessment or litigation, there could be a material adverse effect on our cash, tax provisions and results of operations in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We are party to litigation and may become a party to other claims or litigation that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. From time to time, we are a defendant or plaintiff in various legal actions, as described in Note 12 - Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. For example, we have been subject to certain claims concerning federal securities laws and corporate governance. Our products are purchased by and/or used by consumers, which could increase our exposure to consumer actions such as product liability claims and consumer class action claims. On occasion, we receive claims that individuals were allegedly exposed to substances used in our former semiconductor wafer manufacturing facilities and that this alleged exposure caused harm. Litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions, and its outcome is uncertain. It is possible that if a claim is successfully asserted against us, it could result in the payment of damages that could be material to our business. 34 Table of Conten t s With respect to intellectual property litigation, from time to time, we have been notified of, or third parties may bring or have brought, actions against us and/or against our customers based on allegations that we are infringing the intellectual property rights of others, contributing to or inducing the infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, improperly claiming ownership of intellectual property or otherwise improperly using the intellectual property of others. If any such claims are asserted, we may seek to obtain a license under the third parties’ intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all of the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. These parties may file lawsuits against us or our customers seeking damages (potentially up to and including treble damages) or an injunction against the sale of products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted, which could result in our having to stop the sale of some of our products or to increase the costs of selling some of our products or which could damage our reputation. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or other types of damages, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture and sale of some or all of our products could have a material adverse effect on us. We could decide, in the alternative, to redesign our products or to resort to litigation to challenge such claims. Such challenges could be extremely expensive and time-consuming regardless of their merit, could cause delays in product release or shipment and/or could have a material adverse effect on us. We cannot assure you that litigation related to our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others can always be avoided or successfully concluded. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to environmental laws, conflict minerals regulations, as well as a variety of other laws or regulations that could result in additional costs and liabilities. Our operations and properties are subject to various United States and foreign laws and regulations, including those relating to materials used in our products and the manufacturing processes of our products, discharge of pollutants into the environment, the treatment, transport, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and remediation of contamination. In addition, our operations and those of our suppliers are further governed by regulations prohibiting the use of forced labor (e.g., mining conflict materials), and restrictions on other materials, as well as laws or regulations governing the operation of our facilities, sale and distribution of our products, and real property. For the manufacturing of our products, these laws and regulations require our suppliers to obtain permits for operations, including the discharge of air pollutants and wastewater. Although our management systems are designed to oversee our suppliers’ compliance, we cannot assure you that our suppliers have been or will be in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If our suppliers violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, suspension of production, alteration of manufacturing processes, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. Such non-compliance from our manufacturing suppliers could result in disruptions in supply, higher sourcing costs, and/or reputational damage for us. We could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at, under or emanating from our current or former facilities or other environmental or natural resource damage. We have been named as a responsible party at three Superfund sites in Sunnyvale, California and we are subject to Final Site Clean-up Requirements Orders from the California Regional Water Quality Control Board relating to the three sites and we have entered into settlement agreements with other responsible parties on two of the orders. During the term of such agreements, other parties have agreed to assume most of the foreseeable costs as well as the primary role in conducting remediation activities under the orders. We remain responsible for additional costs beyond the scope of the agreements as well as all remaining costs in the event that the other parties do not fulfill their obligations under the settlement agreements. The progress of future remediation efforts cannot be predicted with certainty and these costs may change. Although we have not been, we could be named a potentially responsible party at other Superfund or contaminated sites in the future. In addition, contamination that has not been identified could exist at our other facilities. Future environmental legal requirements may become more stringent or costly. As such, the costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past and future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances may increase and could have a material adverse effect on us. 35 Table of Conten t s Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and tend to become more stringent over time. For example, the European Union (EU) and China are among a growing number of jurisdictions that have enacted restrictions on the use of lead and other materials in electronic products. These regulations affect semiconductor devices and packaging. As regulations restricting materials in electronic products continue to increase around the world, there is a risk that the cost, quality and manufacturing yields of products that are subject to these restrictions may be less favorable compared to products that are not subject to such restrictions, or that the transition to compliant products may not meet customer roadmaps, or produce sudden changes in demand, which may result in excess inventory. Jurisdictions including the EU, Australia, California and China are developing or have finalized market entry or public procurement regulations for computers and servers based on ENERGY STAR specifications, and the like, as well as additional energy consumption limits. Certain of our products may be excluded from some of these markets which could materially adversely affect us. We incur costs associated with complying with conflict minerals reporting requirements to our customers and the SEC. In addition to the SEC regulation, the EU, China and other jurisdictions are developing new policies focused on conflict minerals that may impact and increase the cost of our compliance program. Customers are increasingly seeking information about the source of minerals used in our supply chain beyond those addressed in laws and regulations. Given the complexity of mineral supply chains, we may be unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the subject minerals and thus our reputation may be harmed. Moreover, we are likely to encounter challenges to satisfy customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as “conflict free.” If we cannot satisfy these customers, they may choose a competitor’s products. In addition, new or increased regulations limiting the use of such components, or regulation regarding greenhouse gas emissions and climate change-related risks, could increase our energy costs, for example as a result of carbon pricing impacts on electrical utilities and/or necessitating that we purchase more renewable energy than otherwise planned. Our supply chain manufacturing suppliers may be exposed to increased cost of doing business should they be affected by new climate-related regulations, for example, affecting abatement equipment, renewable energy, and/or alter production processes and materials selections. In addition to our Company, customers, governments and authorities continue to focus on eliminating risks of forced labor in supply chains which may increase the cost of our compliance program. Several customers have also issued expectations to eliminate these occurrences, if any, that may impact us. While we have a Human Rights Policy and management systems to identify and avoid these practices in our supply chain, we cannot guarantee that our suppliers will always be in conformance with laws and expectations. Our failure to satisfy customer expectations on forced and trafficked labor policies may result in these customers choosing a competitor’s product or enforcement liability and reputational challenges. In addition, many governments have enacted laws around PII, such as the GDPR and the CCPA, and the failure to comply could result in sanctions or other actions by the governments. The GDPR imposes significant requirements on how we collect, process and transfer personal data, as well as significant fines for non-compliance. New emerging technology trends, such as AI, require us to keep pace with evolving regulations and industry standards. Given the complexity and rapid development of AI, there are various current and proposed regulatory frameworks relating to the use of AI in products and services. For example, the EU AI Act was adopted in 2024 and its implementation will be phased in over the next few years. In other jurisdictions, similar legislation is being considered. Such laws and regulations may impede our ability to offer certain products and services in certain jurisdictions if we are unable to comply with them. We expect that the legal and regulatory environment relating to emerging technologies such as AI will continue to develop and could increase costs and burdens to us and our customers, delay or halt deployment of new systems using our products, reduce the number for entrants and customers and create compliance risks and potential liability, all which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Governments are also considering the new issues in intellectual property law that AI creates, which could result in different intellectual property rights in technology we create with AI and development processes and procedures and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 36 Table of Conten t s Evolving expectations from governments, investors, customers and other stakeholders regarding corporate responsibility matters could result in additional costs, harm to our reputation and a loss of customers. There are evolving expectations from governments, investors, customers and other stakeholders regarding corporate responsibility matters including those involving the environment and climate, energy and water consumption, diversity and inclusion, human rights, governance and cybersecurity. Additionally, we are and expect to continue to be subject to various new and proposed climate-related and sustainability laws and requirements that may impact how we and our suppliers and customers conduct and report on our business by requiring the disclosure and tracking of greenhouse gas emissions, climate change-related risks and other sustainability matters. As corporate responsibility reporting and disclosure requirements continue to evolve, we may incur additional compliance costs and indirect compliance costs that our customers and suppliers may pass on to us. Emerging legal and regulatory requirements in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, can be unpredictable, are subject to change, and may be difficult for us to comply with given the complexity of our supply chain and our outsourced manufacturing. As a result, we may be required to modify our business or supply chain in ways that are costly or less efficient. For example, the state of California has passed reporting requirements that will require corporations to report on climate data and risks, and these laws include data assurance requirements that entail third-party verifications. Our failure to comply, or the appearance of our failure to comply, with these legal and regulatory requirements can result in regulatory penalties, fines and legal liabilities, increase costs, and harm our reputation – any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. While we have engaged, and may continue to engage, in voluntary initiatives (such as voluntary disclosures, certifications, goals, or targets, among others) or commitments to improve our corporate responsibility profile and/or products or to respond to stakeholder expectations, such initiatives or achievement of such commitments may be costly, may not have the desired effect or may impact our reputation with other stakeholders and have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we have publicly announced certain corporate responsibility goals spanning multiple topics informed by input from various of our stakeholders, including customers, investors and employees. These goals, which reflect our current plans and aspirations based on known conditions, may change in the future or may not be achieved, as they are subject to various challenges, risks and expectations such as standards, processes, and methodologies that continue to evolve or emerge, and many of these matters are outside our control. Our progress towards some goals receives third-party limited assurance and not reasonable assurance, or may rely on receipt of others’ information and data that may not be subject to either third-party limited or reasonable assurance. Any failure to achieve such goals, failure to achieve these goals within the set timeframe, or the perception by stakeholders of such failure to achieve these goals may result in reputational or financial harm. Simultaneously, there are efforts by some stakeholders to reduce companies’ efforts on certain environmental, social and governance matters. Both advocates and opponents of environmental, social and governance matters are increasingly resorting to a range of activism forms, including media campaigns and litigation, to advance their perspectives. To the extent we are subject to such activism or litigation, it may require us to incur costs or otherwise adversely impact our business. Stakeholder groups may find our stated goals to be insufficiently responsive to the implications of issues, and any failure to meet stakeholder expectations may result in loss of customers or in investors selling their shares, which could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 37 Table of Conten t s Issues related to the responsible use of AI may result in reputational, competitive and financial harm and liability. We offer products that include capabilities to support AI deployment and we expect this part of our business to grow. As with many new emerging technologies, AI presents risks and challenges and increasing legal, social and ethical concerns relating to its responsible use that could affect the adoption of AI, and thus our business. Third-party misuse of AI applications, models, or solutions, or ineffective or inadequate AI development or deployment practices by us or our customers, could cause harm to individuals or society and impair the public’s acceptance of AI. Moreover, we may be subject to competitive harm, regulatory action and legal liability as a result of new and proposed legislation regulating AI, as well as new applications of existing data protection, privacy and intellectual property and other laws. Such regulations and changes thereto could cause us to incur greater compliance costs, could impact our ability to sell or the ability of our customers and users worldwide to acquire, deploy and use systems that include our AI-related products and services and reduce the number of customers, which could negatively impact our business and financial results. As there continues to be an increasing focus on risks related to AI technologies, there may be an increasing focus on regulatory restrictions that target products and services that enable or facilitate AI and that may negatively impact some of our AI-related products and services. If the AI-related products that we offer have unintended consequences, infringe intellectual property rights or rights of publicity, or are misused by our customers or are otherwise controversial due to their perceived or actual impact on human rights, privacy, cybersecurity, employment or other social, economic or political issues the public’s acceptance of AI may be impaired and this may also result in reputational, competitive and financial harm and liability to our business. The agreements governing our notes, our guarantee of the Assumed Xilinx Notes and the Revolving Credit Agreement impose restrictions on us that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The indentures governing our 3.924% Senior Notes due 2032, 4.393% Senior Notes due 2052, 4.212% Senior Notes due 2026 and 4.319% Senior Notes due 2028 contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: create liens on certain assets to secure debt, enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; and consolidate with, merge into or sell, convey or lease all or substantially all of our assets to any other person. We unconditionally guarantee, on a senior unsecured basis, Xilinx’s obligations under the Xilinx’s 2.375% Notes due 2030 (the Assumed Xilinx Notes). The supplemental indenture governing the Assumed Xilinx Notes also contain various covenants which limit our ability to, among other things, create certain liens on principal property or the capital stock of certain subsidiaries, enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions with respect to principal property, and consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all our assets, taken as a whole, to another person. We also have an unsecured revolving credit facility in the aggregate principal amount of $3.0 billion (Revolving Credit Agreement). Our Revolving Credit Agreement contains various covenants which limit our ability to, among other things, incur liens; and consolidate or merge or sell our assets as an entirety or substantially as an entirety (in each case, except for certain customary exceptions). In addition, our Revolving Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio at the end of each fiscal quarter. The agreement governing our convertible notes and our Revolving Credit Agreement contains provisions whereby a payment default or acceleration under certain agreements with respect to other material indebtedness would result in cross defaults under our convertible indenture or the Revolving Credit Agreement and allow note holders or the lenders under our Revolving Credit Agreement to declare all amounts outstanding under certain of our indentures or the Revolving Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders under our Revolving Credit Agreement accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay those borrowings. Also, we enter into sale and factoring arrangements from time to time with respect to certain accounts receivables, which arrangements are non-recourse to us in the event that an account debtor fails to pay for credit-related reasons and are not included in our indebtedness. We may be required to satisfy financial obligations under guarantees and other commercial commitments. From time to time, we enter into commercial arrangements such as long-term capacity purchase agreements, financial guarantees and leases to support customers’ or commercial partners’ infrastructure development. These arrangements may increase our exposure to counterparty risk, such as their inability to secure the necessary capital or financing, delays in project execution and downturns in their business, including insolvency. If we are required to satisfy our financial obligations under these commercial arrangements, our business, operating results, financial and condition may be adversely affected. 38 Table of Conten t s Merger, Acquisition, Divestiture, and Integration Risks Acquisitions, joint ventures, and/or investments, and the failure to integrate acquired businesses, may fail to materialize their anticipated benefits and could disrupt our business, which could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We have acquired and invested in businesses, and may continue to do so, that offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand our product offerings and services and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. Acquisitions and joint ventures include numerous risks including, but not limited to: our inability to identify suitable opportunities in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us; failure to complete a transaction in a timely manner, or at all; inability to obtain, or delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals or IP disputes or other litigation; difficulty in obtaining financing on terms acceptable to us or at all; and failure of a transaction to advance our business strategy or other unforeseen factors. For example, in March 2025, we completed our acquisition of ZT Systems. While we believe that our acquisitions will result in certain benefits, including certain operational synergies, accretion and cost efficiencies, and drive product innovations, achieving these anticipated benefits depends on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our business. We cannot be certain that our acquisitions can be successfully integrated with our business in a timely manner or at all, for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to: difficulty in integrating the technology, systems, products, policies, processes or operations and integrating and retaining the employees including key personnel of the acquired business; diversion of capital and other resources, including management’s attention from our existing business; unanticipated costs or liabilities, such as increased interest expense and compliance with debt covenants or other obligations; coordinating and integrating in countries in which we have not previously operated; the potential impact of the acquisitions on our relationships with employees, vendors, suppliers and customers; our inability to effectively retain suppliers, vendors and customers of the acquired businesses; entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no experience; adverse changes in general economic conditions in regions in which we and the acquired companies operate; potential litigation associated with the acquisitions; difficulties in the assimilation of employees and culture; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company; and difficulties with integrating and upgrading our and the acquired companies’ financial reporting systems. If we cannot successfully integrate or are delayed in integrating newly acquired businesses, it could result in increased costs, decreases in expected revenues, diversion of management’s time and attention, negatively impact our ability to develop or sell new products and impair our ability to grow our business, which could materially adversely affect our financial conditions and operating results. Even if the businesses we acquire are successfully integrated, the benefits of such transactions may not be realized within the anticipated time frame or at all. To complete an acquisition, we may issue equity securities, which would dilute our stockholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and/or incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. From time to time, we may also seek to divest or wind down portions of our business, either acquired or otherwise. Such dispositions involve risks and uncertainties, including our ability to sell such businesses on terms acceptable to us, or at all; litigation; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; failure to effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to buyer; continued financial obligations and unanticipated liabilities; and closing delays. For example, purchase price consideration received from divestitures can be subject to customary post-closing adjustments, and if such adjustments are material, we may be exposed to losses, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. Moreover, we may not adequately assess the risks of new business initiatives and subsequent events may arise that alter the risks that were initially considered. Acquisitions, joint ventures and other investments involve significant challenges and risks and could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Acquisitions or joint ventures may also reduce our cash available for operation and other uses which could harm our business. For example, the majority of our ATMP services are provided by the ATMP JVs, and there is no guarantee that the JVs will be able to fulfill our long-term ATMP requirements. If we are unable to meet customer demand due to fluctuating or late supply from the ATMP JVs, it could result in lost sales and have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not realize the expected benefits from the THATIC JV’s expected future performance, including the receipt of any royalties from certain licensed intellectual property. In June 2019, the BIS added certain Chinese entities to the Entity List, including THATIC and the THATIC JV. We are complying with U.S. law pertaining to the Entity List designation. 39 Table of Conten t s We invest in both public and private companies to further our strategic objectives and to support certain key business initiatives. We invest in early-stage companies that may still be in the process of developing a strategic direction and may not yet generate revenue. Many of the equity and debt instruments that we invest in are non-marketable and illiquid at the time of our initial investment, and we are not always able to achieve a return. Our ability to realize a return on our investments in private companies typically depends on the company completing a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition. Market conditions and events, particularly in periods with economic uncertainty, inflation, volatile public equity markets or unsettled global market conditions, could cause our investments in public companies to expose us to volatility in our results due to changes in market prices and/or impairments. To the extent any of the companies in which we invest in are not successful, we could recognize an impairment and/or lose all or part of our investment. Our investment portfolio is concentrated in specific sectors and adverse developments in one or any of these sectors due to regulatory changes, technology disruptions or market downturns could negatively impact the performance of our investment portfolio. Any impairment of our tangible, definite-lived intangible or indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, may adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. We account for certain acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting under the provisions of ASC 805, Business Combinations, with AMD as the accounting acquirer. We record assets acquired, including identifiable intangible assets, and liabilities assumed, at their respective fair values at the acquisition date. Any excess of the purchase price over the net fair value of such assets and liabilities will be recorded as goodwill. These acquisitions resulted in recognition of significant goodwill and other intangible assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually. All tangible and intangible assets including goodwill, are subject to impairment testing when events or changes in circumstances suggest that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment testing particularly for goodwill requires significant judgment and assumptions in determining fair value. We monitor for any events or changes in circumstances that may be indicators of impairment, including but not limited to: significant adverse changes in business climate or operating results; changes in management’s business strategy; an inability to successfully introduce new products in the marketplace; an inability to successfully achieve internal forecasts; significant declines in our stock price; significant negative industry; or macroeconomic trends. A deterioration in the long-term economic outlook or expected future cash flows of our business could result in impairment charges, which may have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. 40 Table of Conten t s General Risks Our worldwide operations are subject to political, legal and economic risks and natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We maintain operations around the world, including in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, Latin America and Asia. We rely on third-party wafer foundries in the United States, Europe and Asia. Nearly all product assembly and final testing of our products is performed at third-party operated manufacturing facilities, in China, Malaysia and Taiwan. Our shipping services are provided by third-party subcontractors. We also have international sales operations. International sales, as a percent of net revenue, were 67% for the year ended December 27, 2025. We expect that international sales will continue to be a significant portion of total sales in the foreseeable future. The political, legal and economic risks associated with our worldwide operations include, without limitation: expropriation; changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; changes in tax laws, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements and restrictions; imposition of new and increased tariffs; worsening trade relationship between the United States and China (or other countries); volatile global economic conditions, including downturns or recessions in which some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices; difficulties in protecting our intellectual property; difficulties in managing staffing and exposure to different employment practices and labor laws; changes in immigration law and regulations; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; restrictions on transfers of funds and other assets of our subsidiaries between jurisdictions; changes in freight rates; changes to macroeconomic conditions, including interest rates, inflation and recession; transportation restrictions or disruptions; loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs; and compliance with U.S. laws and regulations related to international operations, including export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Changes in the public perception of the U.S. government in the regions where we operate or plan to operate could also negatively impact our business and results of operations. Geopolitical tensions, such as the Ukraine-Russia, Israel-Hamas and Venezuela conflicts, could escalate and expand, which in turn could have negative impacts on the global economy and financial markets. Also, in addition to restrictions imposed by the United States or China on exports or imports from one another, geopolitical changes between China and Taiwan could disrupt the operations of our Taiwan-based third-party wafer foundries, manufacturing facilities and subcontractors, and materially adversely affect delivery of products and our business, financial condition and/or operating results. In addition, our worldwide operations (or those of our business partners) could be subject to natural disasters and climate change such as earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding, tropical cyclones, droughts, fires, sea-level rise, extreme heat and volcanic eruptions that disrupt our operations, or those of our manufacturers, vendors or customers. For example, our California operations are located near major earthquake fault lines. In April 2024, Taiwan experienced an earthquake where our third-party wafer foundries are located. We also have operations and employees in regions that have experienced extreme weather such as prolonged heat waves, wildfires and freezing. Extreme weather events and natural disasters can also disrupt the ability of our suppliers to deliver expected manufacturing parts and/or services for periods of time. In addition, certain natural disasters, including drought, wildfires, storms, sea-level rise and flooding, could disrupt the availability of water necessary for the operations of our business or the business of our suppliers or customers. Global climate change also may result in chronic changes that result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, which could disrupt our operations, or the operations of our third parties. There may be conflict or uncertainty in the countries in which we, our customers and suppliers operate, including public health issues, epidemics and pandemics, safety issues, natural disasters, fire, disruptions of service from utilities, nuclear power plant accidents or general economic or political factors. Global health outbreaks, such as COVID-19, have and may adversely affect our employees and disrupt our business operations, as well as those of our customers and suppliers. Public health measures by government authorities may cause us to incur additional costs, limit our operations, modify our business practices, diminish employee productivity or disrupt our supply chain, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S. has been and may continue to be involved in armed conflicts that could have a further impact on our sales and our supply chain. The consequences of armed conflict, political instability or civil or military unrest are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have a material adverse effect on us. Terrorist attacks or other hostile acts may negatively affect our operations, or adversely affect demand for our products, and such attacks or related armed conflicts may impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, these attacks or hostile acts may make travel and the transportation of our products more difficult and more expensive, which could materially adversely affect us. Any of these events could cause consumer spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. economy and worldwide financial markets. 41 Table of Conten t s Any of the above risks, should they occur, could result in increased costs, shipment delays, general business interruptions, the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, penalties or a loss of export privileges. Additionally, stringent licensing restrictions may make our products less attractive to international customers, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, longer payment cycles, increased taxes, restrictions on the repatriation of funds and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws are all factors that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may incur future impairments of our technology license purchases. We license certain third-party technologies and tools for the design and production of our products. We report the value of those licenses as other non-current assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and we periodically evaluate the carrying value of those licenses based on their future economic benefit to us. Factors such as the life of the assets, changes in competing technologies, and changes to the business strategy may represent an indicator of impairment. The occurrence of any of these events may require us to record future technology license impairment charges. Our inability to continue to attract and retain key employees may hinder our business. Our success depends upon the continued service of numerous qualified engineering, marketing, sales and executive employees. The market for qualified and skilled executives and employees in the technology industry, especially in the areas of AI and machine learning, is highly competitive. Our competitors have targeted individuals in our organization that have desired skills and experience. If we are unable to continue to attract, develop and retain our leadership team and our qualified employees necessary for our business, the progress of our product development programs could be hindered, and we could be materially adversely affected. We use share-based incentive awards to help attract, retain and motivate our executives and qualified employees. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our executives and employees could be affected, which could harm our results of operations. If the value of our stock awards increases substantially, this could potentially create great personal wealth for our executives and key talent and affect our ability to retain our employees. Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees could also be impacted by changes in immigration law and regulations, or interpretation of new or existing laws. United States immigration controls could affect the employment status of key technical and professional employees, as well as our ability to hire talent globally. Any future restructuring plans may also adversely impact our ability to attract and retain key employees. Our stock price is subject to volatility. Our stock price has experienced price and volume fluctuations and could be subject to wide fluctuations in the future. The trading price of our stock may fluctuate widely due to various factors including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial conditions and operating results; failure to meet expectations related to future growth; changes in financial estimates by us or financial estimates and ratings by securities analysts; changes in our capital structure, including issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; competitive landscape; news regarding our products or products of our competitors or other actions taken by competitors; broad market industry and competitor-related fluctuations; and general economic, political and market conditions, including imposition of new or increased tariffs and other trade restrictions, interest rate changes and inflation. Stock price fluctuations could impact the value of our equity compensation, which could affect our ability to recruit and retain employees. In addition, volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. We have an approved stock repurchase program that authorizes repurchases of up to $14 billion of our common stock (Repurchase Program). As of December 27, 2025, $9.4 billion remained available for future stock repurchases under the Repurchase Program. The Repurchase Program does not obligate us to acquire any common stock, has no termination date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Our stock repurchases could affect the trading price of our stock, the volatility of our stock price, reduce our cash reserves, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time, which may result in a decrease in our stock price.