{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":378909,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
ITEM 1. BUSINESS Baker Hughes Company ("Baker Hughes," "the Company," "we," "us," or "our") is an energy technology company with a diversified portfolio of technologies and services that span the energy and industrial value chain. Built on a century of experience and conducting business in over 120 countries, our innovative technologies and services are taking energy forward. OUR VISION & STRATEGY With our diverse portfolio, leading technology and clear purpose to make energy safer, cleaner and more efficient, Baker Hughes is well positioned to deliver solutions across industrial and energy markets. By integrating health, safety & environment ("HSE") into everything we do, we protect our people, our customers, and the environment. The global energy landscape is undergoing a period of structural transformation, with sustained demand growth driven by population expansion, rising living standards, industrialization, electrification, and the rapid proliferation of digital infrastructure. Meeting this increasing demand will require a diversified and integrated energy system that draws on the full spectrum of energy sources. Within this context, Baker Hughes plays a critical role by deploying technology across industrial energy, oil and gas, liquefied natural gas ("LNG"), power generation, renewable energy and emerging solutions – integrating multiple energy sources, enhancing efficiency, reducing emissions, and supporting the continued advancement of global energy infrastructure. While renewable energy will continue to expand rapidly, oil and natural gas are expected to remain a significant portion of the global energy mix for decades to come. In particular, natural gas will play a central role in providing the scale, reliability, and flexibility required to support economic growth and complement intermittent renewable generation. This dynamic reinforces Baker Hughes' essential role in enabling energy systems that are affordable, secure, and increasingly lower carbon. We believe there is an inseparable link between industrial markets and the energy systems that power them. Industrial growth is driving structural increases in energy demand, alongside rising expectations for cleaner and efficient energy solutions. Addressing these dual objectives requires a fundamentally different approach – one that enables customers to develop new partnerships, adopt innovative commercial models, and implement advanced technology solutions to deliver sustainable energy resilience and security. Our strategy is based on three key pillars: • Transform the core : We are transforming our current business to improve margins and cash flow, which we are achieving through portfolio management, cost improvement, and new operating models. • Driving profitable growth: We are accelerating organic and inorganic growth by expanding our offering in high potential markets where we have differentiated solutions and in-demand capabilities for LNG, gas infrastructure, power generation, data centers, industrial manufacturing and oilfield production. • Delivering results in new energy: We are making strategic investments to drive lower-carbon emissions in the energy and industrial sectors, including hydrogen; carbon capture, utilization and storage ("CCUS"); geothermal; and clean power solutions ("clean power" refers to lower carbon intensity, lower lifecycle emissions, and lower quantity of greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions resulting directly from fuel combustion, relative to conventional power sources derived from fossil fuels). We expect to benefit from our strategy in the following ways: • Scope and scale: We have a global presence and a broad, diversified portfolio that is well positioned to address the needs of a constantly evolving energy ecosystem and customer base. Our products, services, and expertise serve the upstream, midstream/LNG and downstream sectors of the oil and gas industry, new energy markets, power & utilities sector as well as broader chemical and industrial segments across a variety of verticals. We see increasing commercial synergy opportunities across our two operating segments: Oilfield Services & Equipment ("OFSE") and Industrial & Energy Technology ("IET") as discussed Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 1 below under "Products and Services," and each are among the top providers for the majority of the product lines in the markets they serve. • Technology: Our culture is built on a heritage of innovation and invention through industry expertise, technical know-how, and research and development ("R&D"), with complementary expert skills that enable us to provide services, equipment and advanced solutions to a variety of industries. Technology remains a differentiator for us and is a key enabler in driving the efficiency and productivity gains our customers require, while paving the way for longer-term sustainable energy development. We offer a range of technologies specifically designed to help customers reduce their carbon footprint. We remain committed to investing in our products and services to maintain our leadership position across our offerings, including $600 million R&D spend and being granted more than 1,400 patents worldwide in 2025. • Sustainable energy expansion solutions: We are positioned to support our customers' commitments to reduce their carbon footprint with a range of products and services for what we refer to as "New Energy." This portfolio includes integrated solutions for flare reduction, CCUS, hydrogen production, transportation, storage and distribution, geothermal and clean power, and emission-abatement solutions. Over the past several years, we have made progress in strategic investments and acquisitions in emerging energy technologies to advance CCUS, hydrogen, clean power and e-fuels, and have established strategic partnerships with companies such as Fervo Energy, Frontier Carbon Solutions, HIF Global, and NET Power. Our Sustainability Advisory enables us to complement our low-to zero-carbon solutions with expert capabilities that help customers quantify and reduce emissions more efficiently, while also continuing to expand our low-to zero-carbon solutions. • Digital & artificial intelligence ("AI") advancement: We are seeing growing demand for more intelligent operations and the adoption of AI-based solutions as part of our customers' digital transformations. Across industrial and energy markets, digital is both an enabler and a driver, unlocking new levels of efficiency and productivity in operations, while simultaneously generating significantly incremental demand for power to support digital-intensive industries, including data centers. In 2025, we booked $1 billion of orders tied to data center applications. We now expect to book approximately $3 billion of data center-related orders between 2025 and 2027 – underscoring the relevance of our power solutions in this fast-growing market. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Our two operating segments are organized based on the focus of our markets and on customers' buying priorities. We sell to our customers through direct and indirect channels. Our primary sales channel is through our direct sales force, which has a strong regional focus with local teams close to the customer, who are able to draw support from centers of excellence in each of our major product lines. Our products and services are sold in highly competitive markets and the competitive environment varies by product line. See discussion below by segment. Oilfield Services & Equipment The OFSE segment designs and manufactures products and provides related services and integrated solutions for onshore and offshore oilfield operations across the life cycle of an asset, ranging from exploration, appraisal, and development to production, rejuvenation, and decommissioning. Beyond its conventional oilfield focus, OFSE is also expanding its capabilities and technology portfolio to focus on new energy areas, such as geothermal and CCUS; strengthening its digital architecture; and addressing key energy market themes. The OFSE segment is organized into four product lines. • Well Construction focuses on drilling and includes drilling services (directional drilling, logging-while-drilling, surface logging, and remote operations), drill bits (polycrystalline, roller cone, hybrid, and in-bit sensing), and drilling & completion fluids (emulsion-based, water-based, specialty, drill-in, and completion fluids; and waste management). • Completions, Intervention, and Measurements encompasses completions (wellbore construction, upper and lower completions, unconventional multistage completions, intelligent production systems, workover systems, and fishing and through-tubing services), pressure pumping (cementing, production enhancement, Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 2 coiled tubing, and tubular running services), and wireline services (openhole logging services, cased-hole logging services, and perforating and drill stem-testing services). • Production Solutions spans artificial lift systems (electrical submersible pumping systems, surface pumping systems, rigless deployment systems, and sensors and gauges) and oilfield & industrial chemicals (upstream, downstream, and Aquaness TM wholesale chemicals). • Subsea & Surface Pressure Systems includes subsea projects and services (subsea trees, controls, manifolds, wellheads, premium casing connectors, installation and commissioning, repairs and maintenance, well intervention, life-of-field solutions, and plug and abandonment), flexible pipe systems (subsea risers, subsea flowlines and jumpers, onshore reinforced thermoplastic pipe, and rehabilitation), and surface pressure control systems (surface trees and wellheads). In June 2025, the Company announced the creation of a joint venture with a subsidiary of Cactus, Inc. ("Cactus"), to which Baker Hughes will contribute its surface pressure control business. The formation of the joint venture was completed on January 1, 2026. These product lines are supported by the OFSE digital group, which combines OFSE's domain expertise with a deep understanding of digital technology to improve operational safety, performance, and sustainability. Reservoir analysis proficiencies are rooted in a combination of evaluation technologies, a team of reservoir experts, and software. Together, these capabilities drive enhanced economics by providing a greater understanding of the subsurface and by enabling smoother, faster drilling and precise wellbore placement. OFSE also provides integrated well services and solutions for planning and executing projects that range from well construction and production through well abandonment, in addition to integrated services and solutions for the subsea environment. OFSE customers include large integrated major and super-major oil and natural gas companies; U.S. and international independent oil and natural gas companies; national or state-owned oil and natural gas companies; engineering, procurement, and construction contractors; geothermal and other renewable companies; and other oilfield services companies. OFSE believes that its principal competitive differentiators in the industries and markets it serves are the technology, quality, efficiency, reliability, and availability of its products and services. A continued commitment to service delivery, HSE standards, technical proficiency, and competitive pricing are also key factors in its success. OFSE products and services are sold in highly competitive markets. While OFSE may have contracts that include multiple well projects and that may extend over a multi-year period, its services and products are generally provided on a well-by-well basis. Most contracts cover pricing of the products and services, along with various limitations on liability, but do not necessarily establish an obligation to use OFSE products and services. OFSE competitors include SLB, Halliburton, NOV, Weatherford, and TechnipFMC. Industrial & Energy Technology The IET segment combines a broad array of domain expertise, technologies, software, and services for energy and industrial customers across a broad array of applications including on- and offshore, LNG, pipeline and gas storage, distributed gas, refining, petrochemical, hydrogen, geothermal, CCUS, and power inclusive of integration with renewable energy sources. It also provides cutting edge technology for consumers of energy and organizations who are reliant on infrastructure integrity across a broad variety of verticals including pulp & paper, food & beverage, industrial heating, automotive, marine and aerospace. The IET segment consists of five product lines. • Gas Technology Equipment delivers highly efficient mechanical and electric-drive compression and power generation technology for projects across the natural gas value chain. The product line's portfolio includes: • Drivers, which include aero-derivative gas turbines, heavy-duty gas turbines, small- to medium-sized industrial gas turbines, steam turbines, hot gas and turboexpanders, and electric motors. • Driven equipment, which includes synchronous condensers, generators, reciprocating, centrifugal, and integrated compressors, and centrifugal pumps. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 3 • Turnkey solutions, which include power generation and gas compression modules, waste heat/energy/pressure recovery, energy storage, modularized small and large liquefaction plants, CO 2 compression, and storage/use solutions. • Gas Technology Services provides advanced aftermarket support and uptime availability in critical environments and through every stage of our customers' equipment and plant life cycle. The product line portfolio includes: • Designing, manufacturing, maintaining, and upgrading rotating equipment and combining sophisticated hardware technologies with enterprise-class software products. • Analytics to connect customers' assets, providing them with the data, safety and security needed to improve operations reliably and efficiently. • Genuine spare parts, system upgrades, conversion solutions, digital advanced services, and turnkey solutions to refurbish and improve the output from a single machine up to an entire plant. • Industrial Products includes a broad portfolio of component products and service offerings that enable industrial safety and productivity across diverse industry verticals. The product line's portfolio includes: • Non-Destructive Testing: delivers a comprehensive range of non-invasive inspection technologies, software, and services under the Waygate Technologies product brand. This includes industrial radiography, ultrasonic sensors, testing machines, gauges, non-destructive testing film, and remote visual inspection services. • Process & Pipeline Services: provides pre-commissioning and maintenance services to improve throughput and asset integrity for process facilities and pipelines, as well as inline inspection solutions to support pipeline integrity. • Flow Control & Safety Solutions: delivers mission-critical flow assurance and safety solutions through valves, regulators and control systems for process industries, ensuring pressure control, flow regulation, and emergency protection. Through the recent acquisition of Continental Disc Corporation, the product line now also includes rupture discs, actuators, and positioners. • Power Transmission: provides high-reliability mechanical and electromechanical gear transmission systems for oil & gas, energy and industrial applications. • Industrial Solutions offers a unique suite of hardware, software, edge devices and services that enable asset health, performance and process optimization. Industrial Solutions combines several product lines to leverage our critical equipment hardware capability to migrate to full-plant offerings through Cordant TM , a modular AI-enabled enterprise solution. The product line's portfolio includes: • Cordant TM software solutions: designed to optimize assets, processes and energy use at scale; and the Bently Nevada® sensing and protection hardware, providing rack-based vibrating monitoring equipment and sensors for both power generation and oil and gas operations, as well as industrial applications. • Precision Sensors & Instrumentation ("PSI") device technology, including the Panametrics®, Druck®, and Reuter-Stokes® product brands: provides instrumentation and sensor-based technologies to better detect and analyze pressure, flow, gas, moisture, radiation, and related conditions. In June 2025, the Company announced the sale of its PSI business to Crane Company, a diversified manufacturer of engineered industrial products. The transaction closed on January 1, 2026. • Climate Technology Solutions ("CTS") includes CCUS, hydrogen, clean power, geothermal and emissions abatement capabilities to enable energy operators, as well as users of energy in the broader industry, to achieve their emission reduction goals. This product line is the primary driver of the Company's new energy orders and is designed to accelerate the decarbonization of both energy and broader industrial verticals such as hard-to-abate industries, like steel, cement and maritime shipping, as well as energy intense sectors requiring reliable and sustainable solutions such as data centers and utilities. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 4 IET solutions unlock the ability to transform, transfer, and transport energy efficiently, while capturing and reducing emissions, with customers that are industrial, upstream, midstream, and downstream, onshore and offshore, and small-to-large scale operators. Midstream and downstream customers include LNG plants, pipelines, storage facilities, and a wide range of engineering, procurement, and construction companies, as well as industrial sector customers such as data centers, utilities, marine, cement, steel and refinery and petrochemical producers. Products and services for the remaining IET product lines are primarily sold in a diversified arena to a broad range of customers and across multiple verticals, including aerospace, automotive, pharmaceutical, nuclear, oil and gas, mining, cement, metals, refinery and petrochemical, food and beverage, pulp & paper, and textile. IET differentiates itself from competitors with its diverse portfolio, expertise in technology, industry processes and project management, as well as strategic local presence and partnerships, enabling it to provide fully integrated solutions for a broad array of industry segments. IET competes across a wide range of industries, including oil and gas, power generation, aerospace, and light and heavy industrials. IET main competitors include Siemens Energy, Solar (a Caterpillar company), Mitsubishi Heavy Industry, Sulzer, Flowserve, and Emerson. Chart Industries Transaction On July 29, 2025, Baker Hughes announced a definitive agreement to acquire all outstanding shares of common stock of Chart Industries, Inc. ("Chart"). Chart is a global leader in the design, engineering and manufacturing of process technologies and equipment for gas and liquid molecule handling across a broad range of industrial and energy end markets. Under the terms of the agreement, Chart shareholders will receive $210 per share of common stock in cash. Chart reported revenue of approximately $3.18 billion for the nine months ending September 30, 2025. The transaction, which is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions, received the approval of Chart shareholders at a special meeting held on October 6, 2025. With regulatory reviews still underway in certain jurisdictions, we presently expect closing in the second quarter of 2026, understanding that the timing may evolve as those processes progress. CONTRACTS We conduct our business under various types of contracts across the energy and industrial value chain, including the upstream, midstream (including LNG), and downstream sectors, and in New Energy markets such as geothermal, CCUS, hydrogen, emissions abatement, and other decarbonization solutions. Our agreements span fixed-fee or turnkey contracts, transactional agreements for products and services, frame and master service agreements, integrated project and alliance models, equipment supply with aftermarket service agreements, and subscription or license agreements for digital software, data, and analytics solutions. We benefit from stable relationships with many customers based on long-term project contracts and master service agreements. Several of those contracts require us to commit to fixed or firm pricing against customer technical specifications, often with limited relief for changes in circumstances. In certain cases, failure to deliver products or perform services within contractual commitments may lead to liquidated damages or service‑level credits. We seek to mitigate these exposures through disciplined project management, collaboration with our customers, and risk reviews during the bid and execution phases. We strive to negotiate terms consistent with industry best practices. In connection with oil and gas operations, our customer contracts often adopt a knock‑for‑knock indemnity framework. Under this approach, our customers typically indemnify us for claims arising from: (i) injury or death of their employees and often their contractors; (ii) loss of or damage to their property and equipment, and often that of their contractors; (iii) pollution originating from their property and equipment; and (iv) liabilities related to the well and subsurface operations, including loss or damage to the well or reservoir, loss of well control, fire, explosion, or any uncontrolled flow of oil or gas. Conversely, where a knock‑for‑knock indemnity applies, we typically indemnify our customers for claims arising from: (i) injury or death of our employees and often our subcontractors; (ii) loss of or damage to our property and equipment; and (iii) surface pollution originating from our equipment while under our control. For industrial and digital offerings, where knock‑for‑knock is not standard, our contracts typically provide fault‑based indemnities (for example, for third‑party claims to the extent caused by our negligence) subject to negotiated caps and an overall limitation of liability. We also generally seek to negotiate exclusions for consequential losses, including lost profits Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 5 and revenue. For software and data solutions, we may provide limited intellectual property infringement indemnities and set out data usage, privacy, cybersecurity, and service‑level terms that are customary for such offerings. Our indemnity structure may not protect us in every case. Some U.S. jurisdictions have oil and natural gas-specific anti-indemnity statutes that can void or limit agreed allocations of liability, particularly where indemnities purport to cover a party's own negligence without the required insurance support. Applicable law or negotiated contract terms may also limit indemnity obligations in the event of gross negligence or willful misconduct, breaches of applicable law, or breaches of confidentiality or intellectual property rights. Where we contract through intermediaries that are not the end user, we seek indemnity protection against end-user claims, but this is not always achievable. Likewise, government agencies and third parties may make claims for which indemnity does not apply and liability is assessed proportionate to fault. To address the multitude of contractual frameworks and the different liability postures of our customers globally, we maintain an established process to review and approve deviations from our standard contracting practices. We maintain a commercial general liability insurance policy program that covers against certain operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims, as well as certain limited environmental pollution claims for damage to a third party or its property arising out of contact with pollution for which we are liable; however, clean up and well control costs are not covered by such program. All of the insurance policies purchased by us are subject to deductible and/or self-insured retention amounts for which we are responsible for payment, specific terms, conditions, limitations, and exclusions. There can be no assurance that the nature and amount of our insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities related to our business. ORDERS AND REMAINING PERFORMANCE OBLIGATIONS Remaining performance obligations ("RPO"), a defined term under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("U.S. GAAP"), are unfilled customer orders for products and product services excluding any purchase order that provides the customer with the ability to cancel or terminate without incurring a substantive penalty, even if the likelihood of cancellation is remote based on historical experience. For product services, an amount is included for the expected life of the contract. We recognized orders of $29.6 billion, $28.2 billion, and $30.5 billion in 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively. We recognized OFSE orders of $14.7 billion, $15.2 billion, and $16.3 billion, and IET orders of $14.9 billion, $13.0 billion, and $14.2 billion in 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively. As of December 31, 2025, RPO totaled $35.9 billion. As of December 31, 2025, OFSE RPO totaled $3.5 billion, and IET RPO totaled $32.4 billion. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We engage in R&D activities across the business directed toward the development of new products, services, technology, and other solutions, as well as bringing about a significant improvement to existing products and services, and the design of specialized products to meet specific customer needs. We also continue to invest and develop a range of technologies that support our customers' efforts to reduce their carbon footprint. For the year ended December 31, 2025, we invested $600 million of R&D expense. In OFSE, we continue to fund a range of formation evaluation, drilling, completions, and production capabilities and products. In parallel, and in strong collaboration with the IET technology organization, we are investing in strategic themes that fuel our future product and service portfolios. These include themes such as digital, automation, electrification, chemistry and materials, electronics, CCUS, and geothermal. Specifically for OFSE, in our Well Construction product line, we are improving reliability in high-temperature and high shock and vibration environments (harsh-drilling conditions), through a combination of optimized design, automated operations, and integrated solutions that leverage our drilling tools, drill bits, and drilling fluids technologies. In our Completions, Intervention, and Measurements product line, we are investing in intelligent solutions and advanced measurements while creating a leadership position in the well-intervention domain through the integration of our wireline measurement capabilities with the conveyance and intervention capabilities. In our Production Solutions product line, we are leveraging our artificial lift technologies with our chemical solutions to provide an optimized and automated portfolio of production-enhancing solutions. In our Subsea & Surface Pressure Systems product line, we continue to develop subsea production systems that improve performance and reduce emissions through lighter design, automated operations, and electrification. Our offshore flexible pipe systems Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 6 optimized for higher pressure temperature and CO2 content continue to deliver greater sustainability and performance. In IET, we continue to invest in and develop foundational technologies which will enable our journey for the energy transition. Such technologies include advanced materials, advanced manufacturing technologies, novel process technologies, and digital technologies such as advanced sensing & diagnostics, data sciences, and AI. Within Gas Technology Equipment and Gas Technology Services product lines, we are focusing on our latest generation of gas turbines for energy efficiency and reduced carbon footprint such as our LM9000 TM and Nova LT TM products, CCUS, hydrogen and geothermal technologies. Within Industrial Technology, we are investing in advanced digital solutions designed to improve the efficiency, reliability, and safety of oil and gas, aerospace, energy, and broader industrial production and operations. This includes our Orbit 60 Bently Nevada product for critical asset monitoring in turbine systems, including wind, hydro, and gas turbines. The IET segment is also enhancing its process and safety valve business bringing new digital applications including analytics to our customers. Investments in Industrial Technology also include technologies to measure, monitor, and minimize carbon emissions, new inspection technologies for nondestructive evaluation of materials and structures as well as solutions for industrial asset management. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Baker Hughes' intellectual property, including its technology, brands, and proprietary information, are important to our business, and we seek to protect them through a range of intellectual property rights, such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other similar protections ("IP rights"). Baker Hughes maintains a globally distributed intellectual property portfolio, with protection in numerous jurisdictions through thousands of patent applications, issued patents, copyrights, and trade secrets. Baker Hughes also strives to protect its intellectual property in dealings with third parties through specific intellectual property terms in agreements, such as in confidentiality, sales, and co-development agreements. In addition, Baker Hughes benefits from licenses to additional intellectual property from third parties that support its products and services, such as from GE Aerospace (NYSE: GE), GE Vernova (NYSE: GEV), and GE HealthCare Technologies Inc. ("GE HealthCare") (NASDAQ: GEHC). In particular, Baker Hughes has: i) an intellectual property cross-license agreement with GE Aerospace, GE Vernova, and GE HealthCare that allows all parties to have continued rights to commercially utilize certain intellectual property of the other pursuant to the terms of the agreement, ii) a heavy duty gas turbine distribution and supply agreement that licenses certain intellectual property of GE Vernova to Baker Hughes, and iii) a second amended and restated supply and technology development agreement with GE Vernova, GE Aerospace, and the aeroderivative joint venture ("Aero JV") which governs the supply of certain aeroderivative technology to us and regulates intellectual property licenses amongst the parties where relevant. While the above agreements have been amended from time to time, these agreements remain in place. Baker Hughes does not consider any individual patent to be material to its overall business operations. We follow a policy of seeking patent and trademark protection in numerous countries and regions throughout the world for products and methods that we believe have commercial significance. We believe that maintenance, protection and enforcement of our IP rights is central to the conduct of our business, and pursue infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of our IP rights worldwide as may be necessary to protect our business. Additionally, we consider the quality and timely delivery of our products, the service we provide to our customers, and the technical knowledge and skills of our personnel to be other important components of the portfolio of capabilities and assets supporting our ability to compete. If we are not able to protect our IP rights or if those IP rights are invalidated or circumvented, our business may be adversely affected. We may be subject to litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products or services. SEASONALITY Our operations can be affected by seasonal events, which can temporarily impact the delivery and performance of our products and services, and our customers' budgetary cycles. Examples of seasonal events that can impact our business are set forth below: • In OFSE, adverse weather conditions may impact our operations or our customers' operations, cause supply disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and/or damage to our equipment and facilities, which may Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 7 or may not be insured. For more information on seasonal and weather conditions, see the "Operational Risks" section of Part 1 of Item 1A herein. • Many of our international OFSE customers may increase activity for certain products and services in the fourth quarter as they seek to fully utilize their annual budgets. • Our broader IET businesses typically experience higher customer activity in the second half of the year as a result of spending patterns. RAW MATERIALS We purchase various raw materials and component parts for use in manufacturing our products and delivering our services. The principal raw materials we use include steel alloys, chromium, nickel, titanium, barite, beryllium, copper, lead, tungsten carbide, synthetic and natural diamonds, gels, sand and other proppants, printed circuit boards and other electronic components, and hydrocarbon-based chemical feed stocks. Raw materials that are essential to our business are normally readily available from multiple sources but may be subject to price volatility. We have seen prices stabilize for ferrous and non-ferrous metals and other raw materials, but availability of nickel based super alloys, tungsten carbide, and rare earth components are constrained. Tariffs caused some global supply chain unease in early 2025 and we expect continued management of these impacts to continue in 2026. Our procurement teams utilize advanced planning and may enter into strategic agreements with our global suppliers to minimize price impacts and other availability challenges. We anticipate some pricing increase and fulfillment volatility for certain raw materials and components to continue through 2026. In addition to raw materials and component parts, we also use the products and services of metal fabricators, machine shops, foundries, forge shops, assembly operations, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, packagers, indirect material providers, and others in order to produce and deliver products to customers. These materials and services are generally available from multiple sources. SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability, rooted in the framework of People, Planet, and Principles, is integral to our business strategy and operations. For us, sustainability means advancing energy technologies that reduce emissions, enhance efficiency, and deliver long‑term value to stakeholders. Our planet‑centered strategy focuses on operational improvements and innovative technologies to lower our environmental impact while expanding low‑carbon solutions for customers. We recognize climate change as both a challenge and an opportunity, and our commitments are centered on emissions reduction. We have set clear targets to cut Scope 1 and 2 carbon dioxide equivalent emissions by 50% by 2030 and to achieve net‑zero emissions by 2050, in alignment with the Paris Agreement and the recommendations of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Our continued alignment strengthens our efforts to mitigate climate risk, accelerates our role in the energy transition, and unlocks growth across industrial and energy markets. Progress toward these goals is demonstrated in our 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report ("CSR"), where we reported a 29.3% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions compared to our 2019 base year, alongside a 39.5% intensity reduction. Key initiatives supporting these results include facility consolidation, increased use of renewable electricity, infrastructure upgrades, and electrification of our vehicle fleet. Our sustainability approach extends across the value chain, engaging suppliers through assessments and partnerships to strengthen resilience and performance. We strive to minimize our environmental footprint, uphold the highest standards of integrity, and foster an inclusive company for all our stakeholders. We also emphasize the importance of our people by focusing on talent development, employee well‑being, inclusion, and community engagement, recognizing that our success is intrinsically linked to the strength of our workforce. Strong governance underpins our sustainability strategy. We maintain audited and assured reporting processes to ensure transparency and accountability for stakeholders and investors. Our commitments include participation in the UN Global Compact and alignment with its Ten Principles and Sustainable Development Goals, reaffirmed annually since 2019. Our latest CSR is available on the Company section of our website at www.bakerhughes.com. Information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 8 Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2025 ("Annual Report") and should not be considered part of this Annual Report or any other filing we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Social & Human Capital At Baker Hughes, people are at the heart of what we do, and their adaptability is essential to fostering creativity and developing solutions that keep the Company at the forefront of the industry. As of December 31, 2025, we had approximately 56,000 employees. More than 45,000 of our employees work outside the U.S. in over 85 different countries with more than 150 nationalities represented. This global composition underscores our ability to respond effectively to customer needs across markets. In 2025, we advanced our unified talent strategy, a comprehensive approach to human capital management designed to attract, develop, and retain talent. This strategy provides broad opportunity for leadership development opportunities and strengthens governance around performance development, succession planning, talent assessment, individual development plans, and mobility. It supports the recruitment and retention of high-caliber candidates through career pathways, upskilling initiatives, and a positive work culture. We believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce is essential to organizational success, innovation, and resilience. By integrating talent management processes, we enhance the employee experience through development opportunities and a supportive environment that fosters growth and creativity. Agility remains critical in the energy sector, and our approach ensures a flexible, skilled workforce capable of adapting to market conditions. We continue to prioritize internal mobility, which reinforces long‑term career opportunities. Leadership remains accountable for embedding our culture across the enterprise, with measurable outcomes, transparent goals, and clear accountability supporting a stronger, more innovative future. Compensation and Benefits We follow a pay‑for‑performance philosophy and are committed to providing fair and equitable compensation across the organization. We regularly benchmark our total compensation and benefits against industry peers and local markets to ensure competitiveness and equity. Core offerings include healthcare coverage, life insurance, retirement savings plans, disability coverage, and leave options to support family care and quality‑of‑life needs. We also provide comprehensive wellness programs designed to promote physical, mental, and emotional wellbeing. These include preventive health initiatives, fitness and wellness resources, counseling services, and employee assistance programs. Flexible work arrangements—such as hybrid schedules, compressed work weeks, and remote work options—are available to support engagement and retention. In addition, recognition programs, career development support, and community engagement initiatives strengthen employee connections and reinforce our culture. Together, these compensation, benefits, and wellness programs reflect our commitment to fair treatment, employee wellbeing, and long‑term organizational success. Learning and Development Learning and Development at Baker Hughes empowers employees to grow through continual attainment of knowledge, skills, and expertise that drive both professional and personal success. In 2025, we launched the Unified Learning Framework, guided by our Talent Empowerment Strategy, to provide a structured yet flexible approach to development. It addresses the needs of individual contributors, leaders, identified talent, and executives while aligning learning with performance, succession planning, and Individual Development Plans. This holistic framework ensures learning is embedded in career progression, strengthens leadership pipelines, accelerates readiness for complex roles, and builds a future-ready workforce. Learning and Development is a personal journey at Baker Hughes. Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging At Baker Hughes, we believe that diverse perspectives drive innovation and strengthen our long‑term success. We value people from all walks of life, embracing diversity in all its forms. We are committed to maintaining an Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 9 inclusive and safe workplace, supported by learning and development programs, competitive compensation and benefits, health and wellness initiatives, and opportunities that connect employees with their communities. These elements are critical to our business success and our mission of advancing energy solutions for our customers and the industry. Our Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging framework builds teams that reflect the stakeholders and communities we serve globally, while fostering respect and uniting around our shared purpose. In 2025, we advanced these priorities through initiatives such as the People First program, which expanded to eighteen languages to make our culture accessible across geographies. We also partner with Employee Resource Groups ("ERGs") and Communities of Interest ("COIs"), which are open to all our employees and community members, to foster our inclusive culture and embed inclusion into daily work practices, including nominating charitable organizations for grants from the Baker Hughes Foundation (the "Foundation"). We recognize that inclusion is not only a matter of respect but a strategic advantage that fosters innovation and enhances performance. Our enterprise-wide strategy ensures that we remain focused on building a stronger, more inclusive organization for all employees. Health, Safety, Environment, and Wellness HSE is at the core of our culture as we are committed to doing the right thing to protect our employees, customers, the communities where we live and work, and the environment. We take a risk-based approach with proactive and preventive programs to deliver safe, secure, and sustainable operations. We have established a stringent set of standards which meet or exceed global HSE regulatory requirements. Our commitment to HSE starts at the highest levels of our Company and is embedded throughout all layers of the organization. We encourage and empower all employees to take an active role in "owning" HSE by stopping work when conditions and/or behaviors are unsafe and reporting through open reporting channels. Our ambition is to ensure each day we operate without serious injuries, accidents, or harm to the environment. Employees are required to complete recurring HSE training to bring awareness to potential hazards, regulatory obligations, and performing activities safely. We offer over 260 HSE courses, including foundational training required for all employees, workplace and job-specific training, and human-performance leadership training for managers. Our commitment to HSE goes beyond safety alone. Occupational health and wellness is a key competency jointly managed within our HSE and Human Resources ("HR") teams. The importance of physical health, ergonomics, preventative health care, and mental wellness cannot be overstated in promoting a healthy, engaged, and productive workplace. We work with our health benefit providers and internal teams to offer employees health and wellness programs, telemedicine access, health screenings, immunizations, fitness reimbursements, and virtual wellness tools. Focus areas in 2025 included ergonomic injury prevention, heart health, and wellbeing. While ergonomic injuries are not prevalent globally in our operations, we recognize the importance of prevention to alleviate potential for lasting impacts to employees related to recovery and medical intervention. In 2025, we assessed several years of data to evaluate our ergonomic risk factors across operational sites and collaborated with our global teams to share learnings and best practices to reduce risk through pre-job evaluations, stretching programs for employees, and task-oriented assessments to further reduce risk through elimination or modification of tasks, replacement of tools, and workstation modifications. Heart health of our employees was a focus in 2025, with our Your Heart Matters campaign offering education and resources to empower employees to make heart health a priority. Several employee engagement sessions were offered, featuring medical experts and employees who provided their personal journeys related to heart events. Additionally, monthly messaging was shared with employees on key topics including risk factors, diagnostic resources, stress management, nutrition, and exercise. We also focused on the importance of preparedness across our sites regarding lifesaving equipment, training, and drills to help our employees recognize and act in the event of an emergency. We are pleased to hear feedback from employees who were inspired by the campaign and took steps that led to diagnosis and preventative medical support. In 2025, the mental health and emotional wellbeing of our employees remained a critical priority. Following a wellbeing survey issued to employees, we held numerous discussions with teams to discuss results and committed to drive company-wide initiatives to better support mental wellbeing. Baker Hughes held a wellbeing week featuring broadcasts and in person events with significant employee participation. We also offered a new training program for managers designed to enhance and support mental wellbeing in the workplace. Our Employee Assistance Program Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 10 provided employees and their family members direct access to professional coaches for in-the-moment counseling or referrals to community experts and extended care providers to navigate daily life and cope with major life events. Community Involvement We seek to make a positive impact in the communities where we operate worldwide. Consistent with our purpose and values, we focus on advancing environmental quality, educational opportunities, health, and wellness. We contribute through financial support, in‑kind donations of goods and services, and employee volunteer projects that strengthen local communities. The Foundation plays a central role in our community engagement by making strategic philanthropic contributions, matching employee charitable donations, and awarding volunteer recognition grants for outstanding service. In 2025, the Foundation supported initiatives aligned with our sustainability priorities, including environmental stewardship; Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics, or STEM, education; and health and wellness programs. The Foundation also partners with local organizations to deliver community projects that address specific regional needs. Employee involvement is a cornerstone of our approach. Through volunteerism, participation in ERGs, and community engagement programs, our workforce helps extend the Company's impact beyond business operations. These efforts reinforce our culture of responsibility and demonstrate our commitment to building stronger, more resilient communities across the globe. Governance The Board of Directors (the "Board") believes the purpose of corporate governance is to maximize shareholder value in a manner consistent with legal requirements and the highest standards of integrity. The Board has adopted and adheres to corporate governance practices, which the Board and management believe promote this purpose, are sound, and represent best practices. The Board periodically reviews these governance practices, Delaware law (the state in which the Company is incorporated), the rules and listing standards of the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC and SEC regulations, as well as best practices suggested by recognized governance authorities. The Board monitors and provides oversight over our sustainability policies, programs, and practices regarding corporate responsibility and plays an active role in overseeing our human capital management efforts. The Board's Human Capital and Compensation Committee provides oversight of our social strategy, policies, programs, and initiatives focusing on pay equity, culture, talent development, succession planning, and executive compensation and benefits. The Board's Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee provides oversight of our environmental matters, including monitoring its sustainability strategy and initiatives, the management of employee health, safety, and wellness matters, and oversight of our positions on corporate social responsibilities and public issues of significance, including those related to privacy, digital safety and responsible AI, which affect investors and other key stakeholders. The Board's Audit Committee provides oversight over our risk assessment and risk management policies and processes, including data privacy, AI, and compliance reporting. The Board's Finance Committee provides oversight of our financial and investment policies and of our principal finance, banking, and treasury matters, including our capital structure (both equity and debt) and the principal terms of related financing transactions and requirements. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 11 COMPLIANCE In the conduct of all of our activities, we are committed to maintaining our core values, as well as high safety, ethical, and quality standards as also reported in our Quality Management System. We believe such a commitment is integral to running a sound, successful, and sustainable business. We devote significant resources to maintain a comprehensive global ethics and compliance program ("Compliance Program") which is designed to prevent, detect, and appropriately respond to any potential violations of the law, the Code of Conduct, and other Company policies and procedures. Highlights of our Compliance Program include the following: • Comprehensive internal policies over such areas as anti-bribery; travel, entertainment, gifts, sponsorships and charitable donations to government officials and other parties; third-party risk, including payments and discounts to authorized intermediaries such as resellers and sales representatives; and conflicts of interest. In addition, there are policies and procedures to address customs requirements, visa processing risks, export and re-export controls, economic sanctions, anti-money laundering, antitrust and anti-boycott laws. • Global and independent structure of Chief Compliance Officer and other compliance professionals providing compliance advice, customized training and governance, as well as investigating allegations across all regions and countries where we do business. • Comprehensive employee compliance training program that combines instructor-led and web-based training modules tailored to the key risks that employees face on an ongoing basis. • Onboarding, due diligence and monitoring procedures for third parties who conduct business on our behalf, including channel partners (sales representatives, distributors, resellers), and administrative service providers. • Due diligence procedures for acquisition activities. • Specifically tailored compliance risk assessments and audits focused on country and third-party risk. • Compliance Review Board comprised of senior officers of the Company that meets quarterly to monitor effectiveness of the Compliance Program, as well as segment compliance review boards that meet quarterly. • Technology to monitor and report on compliance matters, including an internal investigations management system, a conflict of interest reporting and management system, a data privacy incident reporting and management system, a web-based anti-boycott reporting tool, global trade management systems and comprehensive watch list and negative news screening. • Data privacy compliance policies and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable data privacy requirements. • A compliance program designed to create an "Open Reporting Environment" where employees are encouraged to report any ethics or compliance matter without fear of retaliation, including a global network of trained employee ombudspersons, and a worldwide, 24-hour business helpline operated by a third party and available in approximately 200 languages. • Anti-corruption audits of high-risk countries, as well as risk-based compliance audits of third parties. • Region-specific processes and procedures for management of HR related issues, including pre-hire screening of employees; a process to screen existing employees prior to promotion into select roles where they may be exposed to finance and/or corruption-related risks; and implementation of a global new hire training module which includes compliance training for all employees. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 12 GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS Environmental Matters We are committed to the health and safety of people, protection of the environment and compliance with environmental laws, regulations and our policies. Our past and present operations include activities that are subject to extensive domestic (including U.S. federal, state and local) and international regulations concerning, among other things, air and water quality, waste management, occupational health and safety, and wildlife and land protection. Environmental regulations continue to evolve, and changes in standards of enforcement of existing regulations, as well as the enactment of new legislation or the issuance of judicial or agency opinions or orders, may require us and our customers to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities, obtain new or updated permits to conduct regulated activities, initiate investigatory and/or remedial measures, apply specific HSE criteria addressing employee protection and/or to change or discontinue present methods of operation. Our environmental compliance expenditures and our capital costs for environmental control equipment may change accordingly. Ongoing environmental compliance costs, such as obtaining environmental permits, installation and maintenance of pollution control equipment and waste disposal, are expensed as incurred. Based upon current information, we believe that our overall environmental regulatory compliance obligations, including investigatory and/or remediation obligations, environmental compliance costs and capital expenditures for environmental control equipment, will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position because we have either established adequate reserves or our compliance cost, based on available information, is not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. While we seek to embed and verify sound environmental practices throughout our business, we are, and may in the future be, involved in investigation and/or remediation projects at current and former properties, typically related to historical operations and operations of our predecessor companies. In some cases, our remediation activities are conducted as specified by a government agency-issued consent decree or agreed order. Remediation costs at these properties are accrued using currently available facts, existing environmental permits, technology and presently enacted laws and regulations. For sites where we have primary responsibility for the remediation, our cost estimates are developed based on internal evaluations and are not discounted. We record accruals when it is probable that we will be obligated to pay amounts for environmental site evaluation, investigation and/or remediation or related activities, and such amounts can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are recorded even if significant uncertainties exist over the ultimate cost of the remediation. Our total accrual for environmental remediation was $53 million and $54 million at December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Other Regulatory Matters We are subject to regulation by various U.S. federal regulatory agencies and by the applicable regulatory authorities in countries in which our products are manufactured or sold. Such regulations principally relate to the ingredients, classification, labeling, safety, manufacturing, packaging, transportation, advertising, and marketing of our products. Additionally, because we operate through subsidiaries in non-U.S. jurisdictions, we are subject to foreign exchange ("FX") control, transfer pricing and customs laws that regulate the import and export of goods as well as the flow of funds between us and our subsidiaries. In particular, the shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by the unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Pursuant to their laws and regulations, governments may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities, which may limit or prevent our conduct of business in certain jurisdictions. We are also required to comply with transfer pricing, securities laws, tariff laws, and other statutes and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other countries' anti-corruption and anti-bribery regimes. As a result of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine that began in February of 2022, governments in the U.S., United Kingdom ("U.K."), European Union ("EU"), and other countries enacted sanctions against Russia and certain Russian interests. As previously announced on March 19, 2022, we suspended any new investments in our Russia operations, but continued to comply with applicable laws and regulations as we fulfilled existing contractual obligations. As a result, we completed a number of actions during the course of 2022 and 2023 including the sale of part of our OFSE Russia business and suspended substantially all of our remaining operational activities in Russia. In 2024 and 2025, our focus in Russia has been to continue to close local entities within the scope of western Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 13 sanctions and local regulation. We are continuing to closely monitor the developments in Ukraine and Russia and changes to sanctions, all of which continued to make ongoing operations increasingly complex and significantly more challenging. We are also subject to laws relating to data privacy and security and consumer credit, protection and fraud. An increasing number of governments worldwide have established laws and regulations, and industry groups also have promoted various standards, regarding data privacy and security, including with respect to the protection and processing of personal data. The legal and regulatory environment related to data privacy and security is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and enforcement practices are likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. We are also subject to laws relating to AI. An increasing number of governments worldwide have established laws and regulations regarding AI, including generative AI and agentic AI, with differing definitions, foci, and requirements. As the AI landscape changes and new tools become available, the effect of each of the changing laws and regulations remains uncertain. We are also subject to domestic and international labor and employment laws, including regulations established by the U.S. Department of Labor and other local regulatory agencies, which set laws governing working conditions, paid leave, workplace safety, wage and hour standards, and hiring and employment practices. While there are no current environmental or regulatory matters that we expect to have a material adverse impact on the results of our operations, financial position or cash flows or our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, there can be no assurances that existing or future environmental laws and other laws, regulations and standards, judicial or administrative opinions or orders applicable to our operations or products will not lead to such a material adverse impact. AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION FOR STOCKHOLDERS Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"), are made available free of charge on our internet website at www.bakerhughes.com as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, and can be found at their internet website www.sec.gov . In addition, our Corporate Sustainability reports are available on the Company section of our website at www.bakerhughes.com . Information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this Annual Report or any other filing we make with the SEC. We have a Code of Conduct to provide guidance to our directors, officers, and employees on matters of business conduct and ethics, including compliance standards and procedures. We also require our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer to sign a Code of Ethical Conduct Certification annually. The Code of Conduct, referred to as Our Way: The Baker Hughes Code of Conduct, and the Code of Ethical Conduct Certifications are available on the Investor section of our website at www.bakerhughes.com . We will disclose on a current report on Form 8-K or on our website information about any amendment or waiver of these codes for our executive officers and directors. Waiver information disclosed on our website will remain on the website for at least 12 months after the initial disclosure of a waiver. Our Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit Committee, Finance Committee, Human Capital and Compensation Committee, and Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board are also available on the Investor section of our website at www.bakerhughes.com . In addition, a copy of the Code of Conduct, Code of Ethical Conduct Certifications, Governance Principles, and the charters of the committees referenced above are available in print at no cost to any shareholder who requests them. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 14 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF BAKER HUGHES COMPANY The following table shows, as of February 5, 2026, the name of each of our executive officers, together with his or her age and office presently or previously held. There are no family relationships among our executive officers. Name Age Position and Background Lorenzo Simonelli 52 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Lorenzo Simonelli has been the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company since October 2017, and a Director, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since July 2017. Prior to joining the Company in July 2017, Mr. Simonelli was Senior Vice President, GE and President and Chief Executive Officer, GE Oil & Gas from October 2013 to July 2017. Before joining GE Oil & Gas, he was the President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Transportation from July 2008 to October 2013. Mr. Simonelli joined GE in 1994 and held various finance and leadership roles from 1994 to 2008. He also currently serves on the Board of Iveco Group N.V. He is a Business & Economics Graduate from Cardiff University in South Wales. Ahmed Moghal 44 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ahmed Moghal is the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. He previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the IET segment since 2023. Prior to this role, Mr. Moghal was appointed as the financial planning & analysis leader at the time of the merger of Baker Hughes and GE Oil & Gas in 2017. In his more than two decades of experience, Mr. Moghal has worked in several industries globally, driving performance across multiple business models and cycles. Mr. Moghal started his career at GE in the Financial Management Program and subsequently Corporate Audit Staff. He holds a degree in Accounting & Finance from London South Bank University. James E. Apostolides 48 Chief Infrastructure & Performance Officer James E. Apostolides is the Chief Infrastructure & Performance Officer of the Company and is responsible for leading the Company's HSE, Security, Digital Technology, global Supply Chain Centers of Excellence, and Enterprise Shared Services functions. Mr. Apostolides previously served as Senior Vice President of Enterprise Operational Excellence since 2020. In July 2017, he was appointed VP of Materials Management, Logistics, and Cash Operations. He began his career in 1999 with GE and held roles of increasing responsibility, including managerial positions in Shop Operations, Materials, Sourcing, and Fulfillment across multiple continents. He holds a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from Worcester Polytechnic Institute in the U.S. Maria Claudia Borras 57 Chief Growth & Experience Officer and Interim Executive Vice President, Industrial & Energy Technology Maria Claudia Borras is the Chief Growth & Experience Officer and Interim Executive Vice President, Industrial & Energy Technology, of the Company. Ms. Borras previously served as Executive Vice President, Oilfield Services and Equipment from September 2022 to September 2024 and Executive Vice President, of Oilfield Services from July 2017 to September 2022. Prior to joining the Company, she served as the Chief Commercial Officer of GE Oil & Gas from January 2015 to July 2017. Prior to joining GE Oil & Gas, she held various leadership positions at Baker Hughes Incorporated including President, Latin America from October 2013 to December 2014, President, Europe Region from August 2011 to October 2013, Vice President, Global Marketing from May 2009 to July 2011. She has served on the Board of Tyson Foods Inc. since 2021. She holds a bachelor of science degree in petroleum engineering from Universidad de América, Bogotá-Colombia. Amerino Gatti 55 Executive Vice President, Oilfield Services and Equipment Amerino Gatti is the Executive Vice President, Oilfield Services and Equipment of the Company. Prior to joining the Company in September 2024, Mr. Gatti served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of TEAM, Inc., a provider of integrated specialty industrial services with operations in over 20 countries, from January 2018 to January 2022. Prior to joining TEAM, Inc. he spent 25 years with oilfield services firm Schlumberger and held various leadership positions, including Executive Officer and President of the Production Group for North America, Vice President and General Manager for Qatar and Yemen, Global Vice President for Sand Management Services and Vice President Marketing for North America. His earlier experience includes field operations, engineering and human resources across North America, South Asia and the Middle East. He earned a degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Alberta, Canada. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 15 Name Age Position and Background Georgia Magno 47 Chief Legal Officer Georgia Magno is the Chief Legal Officer of the Company. Ms. Magno previously served as Vice President and General Counsel for the IET segment. She joined the Company in 2010, first as General Counsel for the global supply chain and holding subsequent legal roles of increasing complexity and responsibility across commercial, operational, and product line organizations in multiple countries including Italy and the U.S. Prior to joining the Company, she was an international litigator with the law firms of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP and Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP. She holds a J.D. from Università di Bologna and an L.L.M. from Harvard Law School and is admitted to practice law in both Italy and the U.S. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves various risks. When considering an investment in the Company, one should carefully consider all of the risk factors described below, as well as other information included and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and matters not listed below, that we are unaware of, or that we currently consider immaterial. Any of these may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, thus, the value of an investment in the Company. OPERATIONAL RISKS We operate in a highly competitive environment, which may adversely affect our ability to succeed. Our investments in new technologies, equipment, and facilities may not provide competitive returns. We operate in a highly competitive environment for marketing our products and services and securing equipment across our portfolio. Our ability to continually provide competitive products and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers. In order to be competitive, we must provide new and differentiating technologies, reliable products and services that perform as expected and that create value for our customers. We continue to invest in new technologies, equipment, and facilities and to expand our capabilities and technology portfolio to meet the challenges of a net-zero future. These efforts include expanding into new energy areas such as geothermal and CCUS, strengthening our digital architecture and addressing key energy market themes . Our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services is in part dependent on the industry's capacity relative to customer demand, on our ability to differentiate the value delivered by our products and services from our competitors' products and services and to provide innovative and competitive products and services to meet our client's evolving needs with respect to new energy areas. Managing development of competitive technology and new product introductions on a forecasted schedule and at a forecasted cost can impact our financial results. If we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive and innovative technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in response to changes in the market, customer requirements, competitive pressures, or if competing technology accelerates the obsolescence of any of our products or services, any competitive advantage that we may hold, and in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We have, and may in the future enter into, agreements with third parties to jointly develop certain technologies which may include financial or other commitments. Under the terms of these agreements, we may agree to share in the associated development and marketing costs for the developed technologies. There can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully develop these technologies in collaboration with these third parties that will adequately meet our customers' needs. Also, there can be no assurances that these joint development agreements will be commercially viable, successful or profitable. As a result, these joint development agreements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The potential slowdown and shift in the energy transition could have an adverse effect on the demand for our clean energy technologies and services. There is ongoing focus by governments and our customers, investors and other stakeholders on climate change, sustainability, and energy transition matters. However, the pace and direction of the transition to a lower- Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 16 carbon economy has become increasingly uncertain and variable across different regions and markets. Recent developments indicate a potential slowdown in energy transition efforts, with sustained or increased demand for traditional oil and gas in certain markets. These shifts may result from various factors, including changes in government policies and priorities, economic pressures, energy security concerns, and evolving consumer and industrial demand patterns. Such changes could include the delay, modification or reversal of climate change-related regulations and initiatives; slower-than-anticipated adoption of renewable energy technologies; continued or increased reliance on oil and natural gas as primary energy sources; and reduced near-term demand from consumers and industry for lower-emission products and services. Our future success depends on our ability to effectively adapt our business strategy to align with the actual pace and direction of energy transition as it evolves. We have invested in developing innovative technologies and solutions for clean energy applications, including geothermal, CCUS, hydrogen energy, and other integrated solutions. As the energy transition slows and demand shifts back toward traditional oil and gas applications, the market for our clean energy technologies and services may not develop as anticipated, which could adversely affect our revenue from these segments and the return on our investments in clean energy innovation. Additionally, if we have allocated resources away from traditional oil and gas applications in anticipation of a faster energy transition, we may not be positioned to capture opportunities in markets where demand for conventional energy services remains strong or increases. Furthermore, the uncertainty and variability in energy transition timelines across different regions may make it difficult to optimize our portfolio and resource allocation decisions. Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives and financial targets depends on accurately anticipating market demand across both traditional and emerging energy solutions, and a mismatch between our strategic positioning and actual market conditions could materially impact our financial performance and access to capital. Disruptions in our supply chain, the high cost or unavailability of raw materials, equipment, and supplies essential to our business could adversely affect our ability to execute our operations on a timely basis. Our manufacturing operations are dependent on having sufficient raw materials, component parts and manufacturing capacity, including labor, available to meet our manufacturing plans on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost while minimizing inventories. Additional disruptions within our supply chain resulting from factors including, but not limited to, sanctions, tariffs, conflict, inflation, high interest rates, severe weather and natural disasters, and shortages in labor supply, have had and may continue to have an impact on our business and reputation. Many of the raw materials essential to our business require the use of rail, storage, and trucking services to transport the materials to our job sites. These services, particularly during times of high demand, may cause delays in the arrival of or otherwise constrain our supply of raw materials. These constraints could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. In addition, price increases imposed by our vendors for raw materials and transportation providers used in our business, and the inability to pass these increases through to our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. As a result of these or any other factors, our ability to execute our operations on a timely basis, including our ability to meet our manufacturing plans and revenue goals, control costs, and avoid shortages or over-supply of raw materials and component parts, could be adversely affected. The partial or complete loss of GE Vernova or GE Aerospace as suppliers, as well as contracts with our Aero JV with GE Vernova, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We currently have extensive commercial relationships with GE Vernova and GE Aerospace. Although we have long-term contractual frameworks in place with both GE Vernova and GE Aerospace, if either GE Vernova or GE Aerospace were to discontinue or reduce their business with the Company, fail to perform their obligations under existing contracts (such as our long-term supply agreement for heavy-duty gas turbines, the Second Amended and Restated Supply and Technology Development Agreement or the related intellectual property agreements with GE Aerospace) or experience disruptions, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 17 In addition to our contracts and arrangements with GE Aerospace and GE Vernova as direct suppliers, we also have exposure to GE Aerospace and GE Vernova through the Aero JV. The Aero JV is jointly controlled by GE Vernova and us, and as a result, realizing the benefits of this joint venture depends on the continued cooperation between the parties. In addition, the business and financial performance of the Aero JV may be adversely affected if GE Aerospace fails to perform its obligations under its contracts with the Aero JV. We in turn use certain products and services purchased through the Aero JV for the manufacture and maintenance of various end products, and therefore, failure of the Aero JV to perform for any reason could prevent us from fulfilling our contractual obligations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our proposed transaction with Chart creates business, regulatory, and reputational risks. On July 28, 2025, we entered into a merger agreement with Chart, which sets forth the terms of our proposed transaction. The proposed transaction with Chart entails important risks, including, among others: the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed transaction; the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory clearance of the proposed transaction; the effect of any potential conditions imposed by regulators in connection with the approval of the proposed transaction; the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement and the payment of a termination fee; the outcome of any legal proceedings that have been instituted and may in the future be instituted against the parties and others following announcement of the merger agreement and proposed transaction; the inability to consummate the proposed transaction due to the failure to satisfy other conditions to complete the proposed transaction; risks that the proposed transaction disrupts our current plans and operations; the ability to identify and recognize, including on the expected timeline, the anticipated benefits of the proposed transaction, including anticipated total shareholder return, revenue and Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization ("EBITDA") expectations and synergies; the amount of the costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the proposed transaction; our ability to successfully integrate Chart into our businesses and related operations, including our associates, and realize expected operations benefits, at the times and to the extent anticipated; the risk that results are different from those contained in forecasts when made; the risk that transaction and/or integration costs or dis-synergies are greater than expected, including as a result of conditions regulators put on any approvals of the proposed transaction; the potential effect of the announcement and/or consummation of the proposed transaction on relationships, including with associates, suppliers and competitors; our ability to maintain our current credit rating; the risk that management's attention is diverted from other matters; risks related to the potential effect of general economic, political and market factors, including changes in the financial markets; the risk of adverse effects on the market price of our or Chart's securities or on our or Chart's operating results for any reason; the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement; and other risks described in our filings with the SEC. We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transactions we complete, or find suitable target businesses to acquire. From time to time, we have acquired and may in the future acquire or invest in businesses or partnerships that we believe could complement our business or offer growth opportunities. We expect to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future but may not find suitable targets, or we may not be able to consummate such transactions due to, among other things, financial constraints, unfavorable credit markets, commercially unacceptable terms, failure to obtain regulatory approvals, and competitive bid dynamics or other risks, which could harm our operating results. The pursuit and integration of such acquisitions or investments may divert management's attention and cause us to incur various expenses. Acquisitions and investments may not perform as expected, be integrated as successfully as we anticipate or cause us to assume unrecognized or underestimated liabilities. These activities are complex, costly and time-consuming and pose a number of risks. Any delays or issues encountered in these activities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We may in the future divest certain product lines that no longer fit our long-term strategies. Divestitures may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition if we are unable to achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from such divestitures, or if we are unable to offset impacts from the loss of revenue associated with the divested product lines. Further, whether such divestitures are ultimately consummated or not, their pendency could have a number of negative effects on our current business, including disrupting our regular operations and increasing our costs. It could also disrupt existing business relationships, make it harder to develop new business relationships, or otherwise negatively impact the way that we operate our business. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 18 If we do not manage the foregoing risks, the transactions that we complete or are unable to complete may harm our brand and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively and our operations could be adversely affected. Our operations and future success depend on our ability to recruit, train, and retain key personnel. People are a key resource to developing, manufacturing, and delivering our products and providing technical services and solutions to our customers around the world. A competent, well-trained, highly skilled, motivated, and diverse workforce has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Difficulties in hiring or retaining key employees, or the unexpected loss of experienced employees resulting in the depletion of our institutional knowledge base, could have an adverse impact on our business performance, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations. Additionally, successfully executing organizational change as we restructure the Company, management transitions at leadership levels of the Company, and motivation and retention of key employees is critical to our business success. Factors that may affect our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees include: employee morale, our brand reputation as an employer of choice, competition from other employers, our location strategy for key roles, investments in technology and systems, and availability of qualified individuals with the desired skills and experiences needed to grow our business. Other factors that have, and could continue to impact our workforce, are: changes to our office environments and the impact this could have on our Company culture, the adoption of new work models, and our requirements and/or expectations about when or how often certain employees work on-site or remotely, which may not meet the expectations of our employees. The implementation of any plan to restructure our corporate organization and operating segments may not achieve the results we anticipate, which could adversely affect our business. From time to time, we will embark upon restructuring activities, whether in response to business operating cycles or for more significant programs of strategic significance (for example, the corporate realignment in 2022 which resulted in a focus on our two operating segments). Restructuring activities may be more costly than anticipated, and could lead to the diversion of management's attention from other business priorities. As a result of these or any other factors, we may not realize the anticipated benefits associated with the restructuring plan. There can be no assurance that the restructuring plan will materially increase our profitability. Even if the restructuring plan generates the benefits that we have anticipated, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that occur as a result of the restructuring, which could adversely affect our business. Our business could be impacted by both geopolitical and terrorism threats, including armed conflict, in countries where we or our customers do business and our business operations may be impacted by civil unrest and/or government expropriations. Geopolitical and terrorism threats continue to grow in a number of key countries where we currently or may in the future do business. Geopolitical and terrorism threats, including armed conflict among countries, have led to, among other things, a loss of our investment in the country, adverse impact to our employees, and impairment of our or our customers' ability to conduct operations. Further, the broader consequences of geopolitical and terrorism threats, which may include further sanctions that prohibit our ability to do business in specific countries, embargoes, supply chain disruptions, the potential inability to service our remaining performance obligations and potential contractual breaches and litigation, regional instability and geopolitical shifts, and the extent of any such threats effect on our business and results of operations as well as the global economy, cannot be predicted. Certain geopolitical conflicts, such as between Russia and Ukraine, and instability, such as in the Middle East and the current political situation in Venezuela, have had and may continue to have the effect of heightening many other risks disclosed in our public filings, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Such risks include, but are not limited to, adverse effects on regional and global macroeconomic conditions; increased volatility in the price and demand of oil and natural gas, increased exposure to cyber-attacks; limitations in our ability to implement and execute our business strategy; risks to employees and contractors that we have in the region; disruptions in global supply chains; exposure to foreign currency fluctuations; potential nationalizations and assets seizures; constraints or disruption in the capital markets and our sources of liquidity; our potential inability to service our remaining performance obligations and potential contractual breaches and litigation. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 19 Any such risks may require us to record asset impairments and experience adverse operating impacts which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Control of oil and natural gas reserves by national oil companies may impact the demand for our services and products and create additional risks in our operations . Much of the world's oil and natural gas reserves are controlled by national oil companies. National oil companies may require their contractors to meet local content requirements or other local standards, such as conducting our operations through joint ventures with local partners that could be difficult or undesirable for us to meet. The failure to meet the local content requirements and other local standards may adversely impact our operations in those countries. In addition, our ability to work with national oil companies is subject to our ability to negotiate and agree upon acceptable contract terms. Our operations involve a variety of operating hazards and risks that could cause losses. The products that we manufacture and the services that we provide are complex, and the failure of our equipment to operate properly or to meet specifications may greatly increase our customers' costs. In addition, many of these products are used in inherently hazardous environments across the energy and industrial sectors, including onshore and offshore oil and gas fields, LNG facilities, and other high-pressure or high-temperature applications. These hazards include blowouts, explosions, unplanned or uncontrolled releases, nuclear-related events, fires, collisions, capsizings, and severe weather conditions. We may incur substantial liabilities or losses as a result of these hazards. Our insurance and contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective to protect us under all circumstances or against all risks. The occurrence of a significant event, against which we were not fully insured or indemnified or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to us, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Seasonal and weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our services and operations. Variation from normal weather patterns, such as cooler or warmer summers and winters, can have a significant impact on demand for our services and operations. Adverse weather conditions may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers' operations, cause supply disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured. Such effects have the potential to affect business continuity and operating results, particularly at facilities in coastal areas or areas prone to chronic water scarcity, and could disrupt our operations or those of our customers or suppliers, including through direct damage to physical assets and indirect impacts from supply chain disruption and market volatility. Repercussions of severe or unseasonable weather conditions may include evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services, weather-related damage to offshore drilling rigs resulting in suspension of operations, weather-related damage to our facilities and project work sites, inability to deliver materials to job sites in accordance with contract schedules, decreases in demand for oil and natural gas during unseasonably warm winters, increased insurance premiums and deductibles or a decrease in the availability of coverage in areas subject to severe weather events, and loss of productivity. As a result of the above repercussions or any others, demand for our services and operations may be adversely affected. While we evaluate and incorporate potential ranges of physical risks, it is difficult to predict with certainty the timing, frequency or severity of such events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. CREDIT AND CUSTOMER CONTRACTING RISKS Providing services on an integrated, turnkey, or fixed price basis could require us to assume additional risks. We may choose to enter into integrated or turnkey contracts with our customers that require us to provide services and equipment outside of our core business. Providing services on an integrated or turnkey basis may also subject us to additional risks, such as costs associated with unexpected delays or difficulties in drilling operations, project management interface risk, risks associated with subcontracting and consortium arrangements, and risks associated with production solutions or guarantees. These integrated or turnkey contracts may be fixed price contracts that do not allow us to recover for cost over-runs unless they are directly caused by the customer. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 20 We may not be able to satisfy technical requirements, testing requirements or other specifications required under our service contracts and equipment purchase agreements. Our products are used in deepwater, and other harsh environments, and severe service applications. Our contracts with customers and customer requests for bids typically set forth detailed specifications or technical requirements for our products and services, which may also include extensive testing requirements. In addition, scrutiny of the offshore drilling industry and LNG industry has resulted in more stringent technical specifications for our products and more comprehensive testing requirements for our products to ensure compliance with such specifications. We cannot provide assurance that our products, including products supplied through joint ventures or by third parties, will be able to satisfy the specifications necessary in all scenarios or under all operating conditions, nor that we will be able to perform the full-scale testing required to prove that the product specifications are satisfied in future contract bids or under existing contracts, or that the costs of modifications to our products to satisfy the specifications and testing will not adversely affect our results of operations. We sometimes enter into consortium or similar arrangements for certain projects, which could impose additional costs and obligations on us. We sometimes enter into consortium or similar arrangements for certain projects. Under such arrangements, each party is responsible for performing a certain scope of work within the total scope of the contracted work, and the obligations expire when all contractual obligations are completed. The failure or inability, financially or otherwise, of any of the parties to perform their obligations could impose additional costs and obligations on us. These factors could result in unanticipated costs to complete the project, liquidated damages or contract disputes. Our contracts may be terminated early in certain circumstances. Our contracts with customers generally may be terminated by the customer for convenience, default, or extended force majeure (which could include inability to perform due to a pandemic or as a result of civil unrest or armed conflicts). Termination for convenience may require the payment of an early termination fee by the customer, but the early termination fee may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Termination by the customer for default or extended force majeure due to events outside of our control generally will not require the customer to pay an early termination fee. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if our customers terminate some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, if payments due under our contracts are suspended for an extended period of time, or if a number of our contracts are renegotiated. Our RPO are comprised of unfulfilled customer orders for products and product services (expected life of contract sales for product services). The actual amount and timing of revenues earned may be substantially different than the reported RPO. The total dollar amount of the Company's RPO as of December 31, 2025 was $35.9 billion. The credit risks of having a concentrated customer base in the energy industry could result in losses. Having a concentration of customers in the energy industry may impact our overall exposure to credit risk as our customers may be similarly affected by prolonged changes in economic and industry conditions. Some of our customers may experience extreme financial distress as a result of falling commodity prices and may be forced to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws, which may affect our ability to recover any amounts due from such customers. Furthermore, countries that rely heavily upon income from hydrocarbon exports have been and may in the future be negatively and significantly affected by a drop in oil or gas prices, which could affect our ability to collect, timely or at all, from our customers in these countries, particularly national oil companies. Laws in some jurisdictions in which we will operate could make collection difficult or time consuming. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and do not expect to require collateral in support of our trade receivables. While we maintain reserves for potential credit losses, we cannot assure such reserves will be sufficient to meet write-offs of uncollectible receivables or that our losses from such receivables will be consistent with our expectations. Additionally, in the event of a bankruptcy of any of our customers, we may be treated as an unsecured creditor and may collect substantially less, or none, of the amounts owed to us by such customer. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 21 Our customers' activity levels and spending for our products and services and ability to pay amounts owed us could be impacted by the reduction of their cash flow, financial condition and the ability of our customers to access equity or credit markets. Our customers' access to capital is dependent on their ability to access the funds necessary to develop economically attractive projects based upon their expectations of future energy prices, required investments, and/or resulting returns. Limited access to external sources of funding has caused and may continue to cause customers to reduce their capital spending plans to levels supported by internally generated cash flow. In addition, a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities or the lack of available debt or equity financing may impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us and could cause us to increase our reserve for credit losses or resulting in us collecting substantially less, or none, of the amounts owed to us by such customer. Gross receivables related to our primary customer in Mexico were 4%, 7%, and 9% for 2025, 2024 and 2023, respectively. In addition to the potential risk of credit loss related to collection of accounts receivable with this customer, we have and may in the future, issue credit default swaps ("CDS") to third-party institutions related to borrowings to this customer who utilizes these funds to repay certain of our receivables. In the event of default by our customer to the financial institution, we would be required to pay the notional amount outstanding under the CDS, which may adversely impact our results of operations, short-term liquidity position, and cash flows. LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKS Compliance with and changes in laws could be costly and could affect operating results. In addition, government disruptions could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. We conduct business in more than 120 countries that can be impacted by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate. In particular, goods, services, data, finances, people, and technology that cross international borders subject us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by the unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Pursuant to their laws and regulations, governments may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities, which may limit or prevent our conduct of business in certain jurisdictions. Compliance-related issues could limit our ability to do business in certain countries, impact our earnings and cash flows, bring reputational harm, or result in governmental investigations leading to fines, penalties or other remedial measures. Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulations, new policies, investigations, and legal proceedings as well as new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations: in particular, changes in export control laws or exchange control laws, currency conversion, repatriation of income or capital, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries where we operate. In addition, changes and uncertainty in the political environments in which our businesses operate, including changes in administration, can have a material effect on the laws, rules, and regulations that affect our operations and liquidity. Government disruptions may also delay or halt the granting and renewal of permits, licenses and other items required by us and our customers to conduct our business. The continued success of our global business and operations depends, in part, on our ability to continue to anticipate and effectively manage these and other political, legal and regulatory risks. Given the highly dynamic nature of these restrictions and the unprecedented nature of these changes in recent years, and the uncertainty in the political landscape and unrest in certain areas of the world, our future success depends on the ability of our organization to react to such changes rapidly and appropriately to assure compliance as we continue to conduct business globally. Our failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other similar laws could have a negative impact on our ongoing operations. Our ability to comply with the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws depends on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to successfully select, diligence, oversee, and manage our agents, distributors, joint venture partners, suppliers, and other third-party business partners, and supervise, train, and retain competent employees. These laws in many cases impose liability not only for the actions of our employees, but also for the improper conduct of third parties acting on our behalf. As a result, any failure by us, or by any of our employees or business partners, to comply with applicable anti-bribery and anti- Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 22 corruption requirements could expose us to sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution, fines and penalties, as well as legal expenses and reputational harm that could negatively impact our relationships with customers, regulators, and other stakeholders. Anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing laws could have adverse consequences for us. Non-compliance with anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism financing and various other financial laws may subject us to sanctions, civil and criminal prosecution, fines and penalties, as well as legal expenses and potential reputational harm. While we strive to continuously improve our programs and pursue effective compliance, we cannot be sure our programs and controls are or will remain effective to ensure our compliance with all applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing laws and regulations. Changes to tax laws and associated positions (including tax rate and adverse positions taken by taxing authorities) and international trade policy (including the imposition of tariffs and other import and export regulations) in the countries where we operate could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We are subject to changes in tax laws, rates, treaties, and regulations in the various jurisdictions where we operate, any of which, including in the interpretation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the examinations and subsequent tax assessments by various tax authorities could increase our tax liabilities. Any changes to tax laws or rates or unfavorable positions taken by tax authorities have and could preclude our ability to fully utilize tax loss carryforwards and tax credits which could increase the amount of valuation allowances required against deferred tax assets and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On July 4, 2025, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act ("OBBBA") was enacted, introducing broad changes to the U.S. tax code, including modifications to federal income tax provisions. The legislation has multiple effective dates, with certain provisions effective in 2025 and others taking effect in later years. The aggregate impact of the OBBBA remains uncertain. We will continue to monitor future developments, including regulatory guidance and interpretations, which could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to changes to the U.S. and foreign country tariffs, international trade agreements and policies. This includes proposed and enacted tariffs by the U.S. and foreign governments. Expansion of trade restrictions, changes to government policies related to tariffs or trade agreements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recent changes in U.S. administrative policy, including increases in tariffs and any changes in international trade relations or trade agreements, may have an adverse effect on our business. There is continued uncertainty about the future relationship between the U.S. and various other countries with respect to tariffs, trade policies, government regulations, treaties and trade agreements. Recent changes in U.S. administrative policy have led to significant increases in tariffs on goods imported into the U.S., particularly tariffs on products manufactured in Europe, Mexico and China. These tariffs, and additional proposed tariffs or other restrictive changes, have resulted, and may further result, in retaliatory trade measures in response to such actions and ongoing uncertainty regarding existing trade agreements and greater restrictions on free trade generally, among other possible changes. Further governmental action related to tariffs or international trade agreements, a trade war, changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories and countries where we currently manufacture and sell products, and any resulting negative sentiments towards the U.S. as a result of such changes, would likely have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. To the extent that we incur incremental tariffs, we may need to recover such tariffs from our customers, and there is no guarantee such recoveries will occur. We could be subject to litigation and environmental claims arising out of our products and services which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks and we are from time to time subject to litigation in the U.S. and in foreign countries, for Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 23 example claims involving services or equipment such as personal injury or loss of life, product failure (including as a result of a cyber-attack) or damage to or destruction of property, employment and labor, customer privacy, or regulatory risks. While we have insurance coverage against operating hazards to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available, our insurance may not cover all expenses related to litigation claims arising from our business. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. We may therefore incur significant expenses defending any such suit or government charge and may be required to pay amounts or otherwise change our operations in ways that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon, misappropriated or otherwise violated its intellectual property rights. The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our products and services may infringe upon, misappropriate or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others or be challenged on that basis. Regardless of the merits, any such claims may result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. If such claims were decided against us, then we could be required to pay damages or develop or adopt non-infringing products or services. Resolving such claims with settlement could also increase our costs, including through royalty payments to acquire licenses, if available, from third parties and through the development of replacement technologies. If a license to resolve a claim were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such claims could harm our image, trademarks and brands, competitive position, or our ability to expand our operations into other jurisdictions. There could be attendant negative publicity, even if ultimately decided in our favor. In addition, third parties may assert that the intellectual property or our rights therein are invalid or unenforceable. If applicable intellectual property rights were invalidated or deemed unenforceable, then the third-party could permit competing uses of such intellectual property rights which, in turn, could lead to a decline in revenues and sales. Compliance with, and rulings and litigation in connection with, environmental regulations and the environmental impacts of our operations may adversely affect our business and operating results. We and our business are subject to extensive domestic and international environmental, health and safety regulations. In addition to environmental, health and safety regulatory compliance obligations, we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury, property damage, and human health risks due to exposure to hazardous substances or operations at our current or former facilities. Additionally, we may be impacted by material changes in environmental, health and safety regulations or subject to substantial liability for environmental impacts caused by our (or our predecessors') operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and associated expenditures, including but not limited to our capital expenditures for environmental control equipment, are forecasted and may be inconsistent based on multiple variables. Our compliance cost forecasts may be substantially different from actual results, which may be affected by factors such as: changes in law that impose new or increased restrictions on air or other emissions, wastewater management, waste disposal, or wetland and land use practices; changes in standards of enforcement of existing environmental laws and regulations; a change in our share of any remediation costs or other unexpected, adverse outcomes with respect to sites where we have been named as a potentially responsible party ("PRP"), or otherwise alleged to be responsible for environmental issues (including Superfund sites, the allocation of PRP liability at sites, or discovery of additional issues at existing sites), where additional expenditures may be required to comply with environmental legal obligations; and the accidental, unauthorized discharge of hazardous materials. International, national, and state governments and agencies continue to evaluate and promulgate legislation and regulations that are focused on GHG emissions and climate related risk. Compliance with GHG emission regulations applicable to our or our customers' operations could adversely affect our business and operating results. In the United States, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") has taken steps to regulate GHG emissions as air pollutants under the U.S. Clean Air Act of 1970, as amended. The EPA's Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule requires monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from, among others, certain mobile and stationary GHG emission sources in the oil and natural gas industry. In 2024, the EPA released a final rule expanding the scope of the reporting rule; however, the current administration has taken steps to reconsider these rules. In March 2025, the EPA released a final rule to extend 2025 reporting deadlines and in September 2025, Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 24 proposed a rulemaking to remove and/or suspend program obligations applicable to various industry sectors. Newly enacted GHG emissions disclosure requirements and subsequent reconsiderations have been and likely will continue to be subject to ongoing legal challenges in the U.S. which may delay the implementation or enforcement of such rules. Although a reduction in GHG reporting obligations in the U.S. may be possible at the federal level in the short-term, with changing administrations and increased regulation by certain states, including California and New York, long-term regulatory trends suggest that regulation of GHG emissions in the United States is likely to increase over time. Further, regulatory requirements for sustainability reporting, including GHG emissions, are expanding internationally, including in the European Union and Australia. International developments focused on restricting or otherwise disincentivizing GHG emissions include the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which includes implementation of the Paris Agreement and the Kyoto Protocol by the signatories; the Glasgow Climate Pact; the EU and UK Emissions Trading Systems; the EU Methane Regulation; Article 8 of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive and the UK's Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting framework; and the EU and the UK's carbon border adjustment mechanisms. Caps or fees on carbon emissions have been and may continue to be established and the cost of such caps or fees could disproportionately affect the fossil-fuel sectors. The implementation of these agreements and other existing or future regulatory mandates, may adversely affect the demand for our products and services, require us or our customers to reduce GHG emissions or impose taxes on us or our customers, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Regulatory disclosure requirements related to sustainability matters and future legislation and regulatory programs to address climate change or reduce emissions of GHGs may continue to increase our cost and burden of compliance or may subject us to potential legal and reputational risk, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we continue our efforts to research, establish, accomplish and accurately report on the implementation of our emissions strategy, including our emissions reduction commitments, which may create additional operational risks and expenses and expose us to reputational, legal and other risks. While we create and publish voluntary disclosures regarding emissions matters from time to time, some of the statements in those voluntary disclosures may be based on hypothetical expectations and assumptions that may or may not be representative of current or actual risks or events or forecasts of expected risks or events, including the costs associated therewith. Such expectations and assumptions are necessarily uncertain and may be prone to error or subject to misinterpretation given the long timelines involved and the lack of an established single approach to identifying, measuring and reporting on many emissions matters. Changes in laws or regulations relating to data privacy and security, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws or regulations, or contractual or other obligations relating to data privacy or security, may adversely affect our business and operating results. We have access to sensitive, confidential, proprietary or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is or may become subject to various data privacy and security laws, regulations, standards, contractual obligations or customer-imposed controls in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The legal and regulatory environment related to data privacy and security is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and enforcement practices are likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. These laws and regulations are and may be interpreted and applied differently over time and from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and it is possible that they will be interpreted and applied in ways that may adversely affect our business and operating results. In the U.S., various federal and state regulators, including governmental agencies like the Federal Trade Commission, have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws, regulations and standards concerning personal information, privacy and data security. Certain state laws may be more stringent or broader in scope, or offer greater individual rights, with respect to personal information than federal, international or other state laws, and such laws may differ from each other, all of which may complicate compliance efforts. Internationally, laws, regulations and standards in many jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, retention, security, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal information or other data. For example, the collection, use, storage, disclosure, transfer, or other processing of personal data regarding individuals located in the European Economic Area and the U.K. is subject to strict regulations, and compliance may require adhering to stringent legal and operational obligations and the dedication of substantial time and financial resources. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 25 The various and evolving federal, state and international laws, regulations and standards can differ significantly from one another and, given our global footprint, this may significantly complicate our compliance efforts and impose considerable costs, such as costs related to organizational changes and implementing additional protection technologies, which are likely to increase over time. In addition, compliance with applicable requirements may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies, distract management or divert resources from other initiatives and projects, all of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with any applicable federal, state or international laws, regulations, standards, or contractual or other obligations, relating to data privacy and security could result in damage to our reputation and our relationship with our customers, as well as proceedings or litigation by governmental agencies, customers or individuals, which could subject us to significant fines, sanctions, awards, penalties or judgments, all of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. TECHNOLOGY RISKS An inability to obtain, maintain, protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to obtain, maintain, protect, defend and enforce our IP rights will be complete or adequate. Our applications for IP rights may not be granted entirely, as to key features, or at all. Our IP rights may fail to provide us with significant competitive advantages, particularly in jurisdictions where we have not invested in an intellectual property portfolio or that do not have, or do not enforce, strong IP rights. The weakening of protection for our trademarks, patents, trade secrets, copyrights and other IP rights could also adversely affect our business. We are a party to a number of licenses that give us access to IP rights that is necessary or useful to our business. Our success depends in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain, protect, defend and sufficiently enforce the licensed IP rights we commercialize. Without protection for the IP rights we own or license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business products. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain or renew from third parties any licenses to use IP rights we need in the future, and there is no assurance that such licenses can be obtained on reasonable terms. We would be adversely affected in the event that any such license agreement was terminated without the right for us to continue using the licensed IP rights. Increased cybersecurity vulnerabilities and threats, and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-attacks and other security incidents, pose risks to our systems, data and business, and our relationships with customers and other third parties. In the course of conducting our business, we may hold or have access to sensitive, confidential, proprietary or personal data or information belonging to us, our employees or third parties, including customers, collaborators or suppliers. Increased cybersecurity vulnerabilities and threats, and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-attacks and other security incidents, pose risks to our and our customers', collaborators', suppliers' and third-party service providers' systems, data, and business, and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data, as well as the data of our employees, customers, suppliers, and other third-party business partners. We utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate our exposure including maintaining a dedicated Cyber Fusion Center ("CFC") and engaging third-party experts. For more information see the "Risk Management & Strategy" section of Part 1 of Item 1C herein. While we attempt to mitigate these risks, we remain vulnerable to cyber-attacks and other security incidents, including ransomware incidents. Given our global footprint, the large number of customers, partners, suppliers and service providers with which we do business, and the increasing sophistication and complexity of cyber-attacks, including, without limitation, due to the application of generative AI, an incident could occur and persist for an extended period without detection. Any investigation of a cyber-attack or other security incident would be inherently unpredictable, and it would take time before the completion of any investigation and the availability of full and reliable information. During such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of such an incident. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against, respond to, and recover from any cyber-attacks and other security incidents. As cyber-attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. In addition, our remediation efforts may not be successful, or the impacts may be Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 26 irreversible. The inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition to our own systems, we use third-party service providers, who in turn may also use third-party providers, to process certain data or information on our behalf. Due to applicable laws and regulations or contractual obligations, we may be held responsible for cybersecurity incidents attributed to our service providers or other third parties to the extent affecting information we share with them. Although we contractually require these third parties to implement and maintain reasonable security measures, we cannot control third parties and cannot guarantee that a security breach will not occur in their systems. Our digital technologies and services, as well as third-party products, services and technologies on which we rely (including emerging technologies, such as AI programs), are subject to the risk of cyberattacks. Despite our and our service providers' efforts to protect our data and information, there can be no assurance that the systems we have designed to prevent or limit the effects of cyber incidents or attacks will be sufficient to prevent or detect material consequences arising from such incidents or attacks, or to avoid a material adverse impact on our systems after such incidents or attacks occur. In the normal conduct of our business, we, our customers, and our service providers have been and may in the future be vulnerable to security breaches, ransomware attacks, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, malware, employee errors and/or malfeasance or similar events, including those perpetrated by criminals or nation-state actors, that could potentially lead to the compromise, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of data or information, improper use of our systems, defective products, loss of access to our data, production downtimes and operational disruptions; and, given the nature of such attacks, some incidents may remain undetected for a period of time despite efforts to detect and respond to them in a timely manner. In addition, a cyber-attack or any other significant compromise or breach of our data security, media reports about such an incident, whether accurate or not, or, under certain circumstances, our failure to make adequate or timely disclosures to the public, governmental entities, law enforcement agencies or affected individuals following any such event, whether due to delayed discovery or a failure to follow existing protocols, could adversely impact our operating results and result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness, harm to our relationships with customers, collaborators, suppliers and other third parties, distraction to our management, remediation or increased protection costs, significant litigation or regulatory action, fines and penalties. Cyberattacks are expected to accelerate on a global basis in both frequency and magnitude as threat actors become increasingly sophisticated in techniques and tools (including AI) that circumvent controls, evade detection and even remove forensic evidence of the infiltration. Given the increased prevalence of customer-imposed connectivity, cybersecurity controls and other related contractual obligations towards customers or other third parties, there are an increased number of attack vectors and a cyber-attack or other security incident also could result in breach of contract or indemnity claims against us by customers or other counterparties. While we currently maintain cybersecurity insurance, such insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to cybersecurity breaches or attacks, failures or other data security-related incidents, and we cannot be certain that cyber insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that an insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may use AI, machine learning, data science and similar technologies in our business, products and services, and challenges with properly managing such technologies could result in reputational harm, competitive harm or legal liability, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. AI, machine learning, data science and similar technologies, including third-party AI tools, may be enabled by, or integrated into, some of our business processes and solutions. As with many developing technologies, AI presents risks and challenges that could affect its further development, adoption, and use, and therefore our business. AI algorithms may be flawed or biased. Datasets used to train or develop AI systems may be insufficient, of inferior quality, or contain biased, incorrect or incomplete information. The utilization of AI may increase our risk and liability exposure relating to confidentiality, intellectual property infringement, and client use restrictions. Our AI governance review process and safeguards may not be adequate to protect against these risks and challenges. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 27 Additionally, the laws and regulations concerning the use of AI continue to evolve. If the use or integration of AI systems, or the outputs generated by such systems, were determined to be non-compliant (e.g., in relation to AI statutory regimes, data privacy rights or in relation to the use of AI for certain activities or use cases), this may expose us to regulatory action or litigation. It is possible that emerging regulations or changes to intellectual property laws may limit or block the use of AI in our business or otherwise impose restrictions that may adversely affect the efficiency of our business processes or solutions that were utilizing AI technologies. Our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their product and service offerings more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. INDUSTRY AND MARKET RISKS Volatility of oil and natural gas prices can adversely affect demand for our products and services. Prices of oil and gas products are set on a commodity basis. As a result, the volatility in oil and natural gas prices can impact our customers' activity levels and spending for our products and services. Current energy prices are important contributors to cash flow for our customers and their ability to fund exploration and development activities. Expectations about future prices and price volatility are important for determining future spending levels. Demand for our products and services is subject to factors beyond our control and depends substantially on expenditures by our customers. Changes in the global economy could impact our customers' spending levels and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for our services and products is highly correlated with global economic growth and substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers. Across our products and services, customer demand may be reduced due to global economic factors beyond our control, including but not limited to inflation, high interest rates, fluctuations in FX rates, and declining availability of credit. Specifically, for example, past oil and natural gas industry downturns have resulted in reduced demand for oilfield products and services and lower expenditures by our customers, which in the past has resulted, and may in the future result, in a prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices that may require us to record asset impairments, and we could experience decreased revenue, decreased profitability and reduction in cash flows. Such potential impairment charges and adverse operating metrics could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Supply of oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our operating results. Productive capacity for oil and natural gas is dependent on our customers' decisions to develop and produce oil and natural gas reserves and on the regulatory environment in which our customers and we operate. The ability to produce oil and natural gas can be affected by the number and productivity of new wells drilled and completed, as well as the rate of production and resulting depletion of existing wells. Currency fluctuations or devaluations may impact our operating results. Fluctuations or devaluations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can impact our revenue and our costs of doing business and create volatility, as well as the costs of doing business of our customers. Changes in economic and/or market conditions may impact our ability to borrow and/or cost of borrowing. The condition of the capital markets and equity markets in general may affect the price of our common stock and our ability to obtain financing, if necessary. Although the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System cut interest rates in each of September, October and December 2025, further cuts are uncertain. Actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to raise interest rates could result in increased borrowing costs or make the cost of borrowing funds commercially unattractive. Furthermore, if our credit rating is downgraded, it could increase borrowing costs under credit facilities and issuances of commercial paper, as well as increase the cost of renewing or obtaining, or make it more difficult to renew, obtain, or issue new debt financing. Baker Hughes Company 2025 Form 10-K | 28 RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our shareholders. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our Class A common stock declines significantly, our shareholders may be unable to sell their shares of our Class A common stock at or above their purchase price, if at all. We cannot assure our shareholders that the market price of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock include: variations in our quarterly operating results; failure to meet our earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or our industry; additions or departures of our executive officers and other key management personnel; adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; actions by shareholders; changes in market valuations of similar companies; speculation in the press or investment community; changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; adverse publicity about our industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; and general market and economic conditions. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that might be considered favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable by permitting the Board to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations, and placing limitations on convening shareholder meetings. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals, delay, or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. Pursuant to our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (3) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or (4) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation further provides that any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have notice of and consented to the foregoing provision. The forum selection clause in our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation may limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. This exclusive forum provision applies to certain state law claims and will not apply to claims under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Exchange Act. In addition, our shareholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. This choice of forum provision may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees.