{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":621727,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
ITEM 1. BUSINESS General On February 21, 2021, the Board of Directors of Exelon authorized management to pursue a plan to separate its competitive generation and customer-facing energy businesses, conducted through Constellation and its subsidiaries, into an independent, publicly traded company. CEG Parent, a Pennsylvania corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, was newly formed for the purpose of separation and had not engaged in any activities except in preparation for the distribution. On February 1, 2022, Exelon completed the separation by distributing all the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock, on a pro rata basis to the holders of Exelon’s common stock, with the Company holding all the interests in Constellation previously held by Exelon (the “Separation”). As of 2002, Constellation has been an individual registrant concurrent with the registration of its public debt under the Securities Act. As an individual registrant, Constellation has historically filed consolidated financial statements to reflect their financial position and operating results as a stand-alone, wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, references herein to the terms “we,” “our,” “us” and “the Company” refer collectively to CEG Parent and Constellation. See Glossary for defined terms. On January 7, 2026, Constellation acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Calpine in a cash and stock transaction. Unless otherwise noted, information in this Form 10-K excludes Calpine. For further information regarding the transaction, refer to Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our Business Following the merger with Calpine in January 2026, we are the largest private-sector power producer in the world and the nation’s largest producer of clean and reliable energy. With 55 GWs of capacity from nuclear, natural gas, geothermal, hydro, wind and solar facilities, our fleet has the generating capacity to power the equivalent of 27 million homes, providing about 10% of the nation’s clean energy and delivering the around-the-clock reliability needed to power America’s growing economy. We are also the largest nuclear energy company in the U.S. and a leading competitive retail supplier, serving approximately 2.5 million customer accounts nationwide, including three-fourths of the Fortune 100. We are committed to investing in innovation and new technologies to drive the transition to a reliable, sustainable and secure energy future. After considering divestitures connected with certain regulatory approvals, our merger with Calpine added approximately 23 GWs across 72 generation and battery storage assets, providing reliable power resources in areas experiencing significant demand growth. Calpine is the nation’s largest generator of electricity from natural gas and geothermal resources, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence, with a strong footprint in Texas, California, and the Northeast regions of the U.S. Natural gas‑fired generation remains an essential component of the U.S. energy transition due to its low emissions profile, high reliability, and potential for future emissions‑abatement technologies. Calpine’s portfolio also includes solar and battery storage assets, strengthening our ability to deliver a balanced mix of baseload, intermediate, and peak generation necessary to maintain reliability of the electrical grid. The high-quality and geographic concentration of Calpine’s dispatchable fleet complements our existing portfolio and enhances our ability to meet growing demand for clean, reliable power nationwide. Calpine's retail energy platform adds approximately 62 TWhs of annual load to our business, and allows us to expand our C&I and residential customer base, creating incremental sales channels across the country. With the addition of Calpine, we add approximately 2,500 employees who are dedicated to operational excellence and a shared commitment to serving customers. Refer to Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our acquisition of Calpine. 7 Table of Contents Our Operations We operate the largest emissions-free generation fleet in the nation and are one of the largest competitive electric generation companies in the nation, as measured by owned and contracted MWs. Our fleet is the cleanest large generation portfolio in the country according to the 2025 ERM Report: Benchmarking Air Emissions of the 100 Largest Electric Power Producers in the United States. At December 31, 2025, our owned generating resources had a total capacity of 31,676 MWs, consisting of the following: __________ (a) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES for additional information. (b) Includes wind, hydroelectric, and solar generating assets. In addition to the owned generating resources above, at December 31, 2025, we had contracted generation with a total capacity of 4,798 MWs, which represents electric supply procured under unit-specific agreements. 8 Table of Contents The following map illustrates the locations of our owned generation facilities as of December 31, 2025: Our Owned Generation Fleet Map (a)(b) Owned Assets __________ (a) One symbol is included per location. Some locations may have multiple generating units. Locations in tight geographic proximity may appear as one symbol. Units that are not currently operational are not captured. (b) Does not reflect Grand Prairie Generating Station (Gas/Other), located in Alberta, Canada. 9 Table of Contents We have five reportable segments, as described in the table below, representing the different geographic regions in which our owned generating resources are located and our customer-facing activities are conducted. Segment (a) Net Generation Capacity (MWs) (b) % of Net Generation Capacity Geographic Regions Mid-Atlantic 10,386 33 % Eastern half of PJM, which includes New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, the District of Columbia, and parts of Pennsylvania and North Carolina Midwest 11,606 37 % Western half of PJM and the United States footprint of MISO, excluding MISO’s Southern Region New York 3,093 10 % NYISO ERCOT 4,742 15 % Electric Reliability Council of Texas Other Power Regions 1,849 5 % New England, South, West, and Canada Total 31,676 100 % __________ (a) See Note 5 — Segment Information of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on reportable segments. (b) Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share as of December 31, 2025. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES for additional information. The following table shows our total owned sources of electric supply of 204,944 GWhs and 208,434 GWhs for 2025 and 2024, respectively, which includes the proportionate share of output where we have an undivided ownership interest in jointly-owned generating plants. _________ (a) Includes wind, hydroelectric, and solar generating assets. In addition to the owned generation above, we also had purchased power from the spot energy markets that are administered by the RTOs/ISOs and bilateral transactions of 63,999 GWhs and 60,983 GWhs for the years ended December 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for additional information on electric supply sources. 10 Table of Contents Nuclear Facilities Our nuclear fleet is the nation’s largest, with current generating capacity of approximately 22 GWs, producing 183 TWhs of zero-emissions electricity during 2025 – enough to power 16 million homes and avoid more than 122 million metric tons of carbon emissions according to the EPA GHG Equivalencies Calculator. We have ownership interests in 14 nuclear generating stations currently in service, consisting of 25 units. As of December 31, 2025, we wholly own all our nuclear generating stations, except for undivided ownership interests in five jointly-owned nuclear stations: Quad Cities (75% ownership), Peach Bottom (50% ownership), Salem (42.59% ownership), NMP Unit 2 (82% ownership), and STP (44% ownership), that are reflected in our consolidated financial statements relative to our proportionate ownership interest in each unit. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES for additional information on our nuclear facilities. In September 2024, we executed a 20-year PPA with Microsoft that will support the restart of Three Mile Island Unit 1, renamed as the Crane Clean Energy Center, which was retired in 2019 for economic reasons. Under the agreement, Microsoft will purchase the output generated from the renewed plant which includes energy, capacity and emissions-free attributes as part of its goal to help power its data centers in PJM with clean reliable energy. The site, once operational, will have approximately 835 MWs of emissions-free capacity. The timing of the restart is subject to certain regulatory approvals, interconnection-related construction, permitting, and obtaining a renewed operating license. In November 2025, the DOE Office of Energy Dominance Financing issued a guarantee for up to $1.0 billion as an unsecured loan to support the restart of the Crane Clean Energy Center. See Note 16 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We operate all of our nuclear generating stations, except for the units at Salem and STP, which are operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC (an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of PSEG) and STPNOC, respectively. We have consistently operated our nuclear plants at best-in-class levels. During 2025, 2024, and 2023, our nuclear generating facilities achieved capacity factors (a) of 94.7%, 94.6%, and 94.4%, respectively, at ownership percentage. The nuclear capacity factor has been approximately four percentage points better than the industry average annually since 2013. Capacity factors, which are significantly affected by the number and duration of refueling and non-refueling outages, can have a material impact on our results of operations. In 2025, we achieved an average refueling outage duration of 22 days for units we operate. We achieved an average refueling outage duration of 19 and 21 days in 2024 and 2023, respectively, against industry averages of 33 and 38 days, respectively. We manage our scheduled refueling outages to minimize their duration and to maintain high nuclear generating capacity factors, resulting in a stable supply position for our wholesale and retail power marketing activities. In 2025, 2024, and 2023, electric supply (in GWhs) generated from our nuclear generating facilities was 68%, 67%, and 65%, respectively, of our total electric supply. During scheduled refueling outages, we perform maintenance and equipment upgrades in order to maintain safe, reliable operations and to minimize the occurrence of unplanned outages. In addition to the maintenance and equipment upgrades performed by us during scheduled refueling outages, we have extensive operating and security procedures in place to ensure the safe operation of our nuclear units. We also have extensive safety systems in place to protect the plant, personnel, and surrounding area in the unlikely event of an accident or other incident. __________ (a) Capacity factor is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a unit (or combination of units) over a period of time to its output if the unit had operated at net monthly mean capacity for that time period. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — Financial Results of Operations for additional information. 11 Table of Contents All of our nuclear units were originally licensed by the NRC for 40 years and have since received 20-year operating license renewals. Additionally, PSEG and STPNOC have received 20-year license renewals for the Salem and STP units, respectively. Peach Bottom and Dresden have received subsequent license renewal from the NRC for a second 20-year term, extending their operating period to a total 80-year term. We plan to pursue a subsequent license renewal for Crane in 2029. PSEG has also announced plans to pursue a subsequent license renewal for Salem in 2027. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Peach Bottom's subsequent license renewal. The following table summarizes the current license expiration dates for our nuclear facilities currently in service: Station Unit In-Service Date (a) Current License Expiration Braidwood 1 1988 2046 2 1988 2047 Byron 1 1985 2044 2 1987 2046 Calvert Cliffs 1 1975 2034 2 1977 2036 Clinton 1 1987 2047 Dresden 2 1970 2049 3 1971 2051 FitzPatrick 1 1975 2034 LaSalle 1 1984 2042 2 1984 2043 Limerick 1 1986 2044 2 1990 2049 NMP 1 1969 2029 2 1988 2046 Peach Bottom 2 1974 2053 3 1974 2054 Quad Cities 1 1973 2032 2 1973 2032 Ginna 1 1970 2029 Salem 1 1977 2036 2 1981 2040 STP 1 1988 2047 2 1989 2048 __________ (a) Denotes year in which nuclear unit began commercial operations. Following recent improvements by the NRC, the operating license renewal process takes approximately three years from commencement, which includes approximately two years for us to develop the application and approximately 12 months for the NRC to review the application. Future rulemaking could further reduce the timelines for developing and reviewing the application. Depreciation provisions correspond with the expiration of the current NRC operating license denoted in the table above, except for Braidwood, Byron, LaSalle, NMP Unit 1, Quad Cities, Ginna, and Salem, which are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations including expectations for an additional 20-year term beyond current license expiration. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters and Note 8 — Property, Plant, and Equipment of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. While the table above provides the date through which we are licensed to operate our nuclear plants, we may choose to retire certain plants earlier than the license expiration date if the economics do not support our continued operation of those plants. 12 Table of Contents Natural Gas and Oil Facilities We operate approximately 7 GWs of natural gas and oil-fueled generation assets which provide a mix of baseload, intermediate, and peak power generation. We wholly own all our natural gas and oil facilities except for Wyman, which is operated by the principal owner, NextEra Energy Resources LLC, a subsidiary of NextEra Energy, Inc. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES for additional information regarding these generating facilities. Natural gas and oil generation plants are generally not licensed, and therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. In 2025, 2024, and 2023, electric supply (in GWhs) generated from our owned natural gas and oil generating facilities was 6%, 8%, and 9%, respectively, of our total electric supply. Our natural gas and oil fleet has similarly demonstrated a track record of strong performance with a Dispatch Match (a) of 97.9%, 97.4%, and 98.5% in 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively. With our acquisition of Calpine in January 2026, the composition of our fleet changes materially with a higher concentration of natural gas facilities. Calpine owns 21 GWs of natural gas-fired generation, primarily consisting of combined cycle gas turbine plants in the Texas, California, and Northeast regions of the United States. Calpine's modern natural gas fleet is part of the backbone of the U.S. electrical grid, enabling the transition away from coal-fired generation and supporting the growth of intermittent renewable resources while maintaining reliability. Renewable Facilities (including Hydroelectric) Our renewable portfolio includes approximately 2.6 GWs of hydroelectric, wind, and solar generation assets, of which the electric supply (in GWhs) generated in 2025, 2024, and 2023 represented 2% of our total electric supply. Our Renewables Energy Capture (b) was 96.6%, 96.1%, and 96.4% in 2025, 2024, and 2023, respectively. We wholly own our renewable facilities except for certain wind project entities and CRP. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES for additional information regarding these generating facilities and Note 21 — Variable Interest Entities of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding CRP, which is a VIE. FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non-federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways or federal lands, or connected to the interstate electrical grid, which include our Conowingo Hydroelectric Project (Conowingo) and Muddy Run Pumped Storage Facility Project (Muddy Run). Muddy Run's license expires on December 1, 2055 and is currently being depreciated over an estimated useful life that corresponds with the available license term. In March 2021, FERC issued a new 50-year license for Conowingo, which was subsequently vacated in December 2022. In September 2025, we reached a settlement agreement with MDE, Lower Susquehanna Riverkeeper Association, and Waterkeepers Chesapeake which allows us to move forward with resubmitting the license application with FERC. We cannot currently predict when FERC will issue the new license. Depreciation provisions continue to assume an estimated useful life through 2071 in anticipation of the license expiration date being restored. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the status of Conowingo's license. Wind and solar generation assets are generally not licensed, and therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. __________ (a) Dispatch Match is used to measure the responsiveness of a unit to the market, expressed as the total actual energy revenue net of fuel cost relative to the total desired energy revenue net of fuel cost. Factors having an adverse effect on Dispatch Match include forced outages, derates, and failure to operate to the desired generation signal. (b) Renewable Energy Capture is an indicator of how efficiently the installed assets capture the natural energy available from the wind, the sun, and water. Renewable Energy Capture represents an energy-based fraction, the numerator of which is the energy produced by the sum of the wind turbines, solar panels, and run-of-river hydroelectric operations in the year, and the denominator of which is the total expected energy to be produced during the year, with adjustments made for certain events that are considered non-controllable, such as force majeure events, serial design-manufacturing equipment failures, and transmission curtailments. Renewable Energy Capture for the combined wind, solar, and run-of-river hydroelectric fleet is weighted by the relative site projected pre-tax variable revenue. 13 Table of Contents The acquisition of Calpine in January 2026 adds the Geysers Assets to our renewable portfolio, which is the largest geothermal power generation portfolio in the U.S., and the largest single renewable energy asset in California. The Geysers Assets consist of 13 operating geothermal plants located in Northern California, with an operating capacity of approximately 730 MWs. Calpine also contributes approximately 800 MWs of battery storage facilities to our portfolio, largely based in California. Contracted Generation In addition to energy produced by our owned generation assets, we source electricity from generators we do not own under long-term contracts. The following tables summarize our long-term contracts to purchase unit-specific physical power with an original term in excess of one year in duration, by segment, in effect as of December 31, 2025: Segment Number of Agreements Expiration Dates Capacity (MWs) Mid-Atlantic 22 2027-2045 564 Midwest 8 2026-2044 855 ERCOT 8 2026-2040 1,140 Other Power Regions 18 2026-2045 2,239 Total 56 4,798 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 and thereafter Total Capacity Expiring (MWs) 398 16 75 98 1,015 3,196 4,798 14 Table of Contents Customer-Facing Business Based on data from EEI, we are the nation’s largest energy supplier for C&I and residential power volumes. Through our integrated business operations, we sell electricity, natural gas, and other energy-related products and sustainable solutions to various types of customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and commercial, industrial, public sector, and residential customers in markets across multiple geographic regions. We serve approximately 2 million total customer accounts, including three-fourths of Fortune 100 companies, and approximately 1.4 million residential customers. We are a leader in electric power supply, serving approximately 204 TWhs in 2025 through sales to retail customers and wholesale load auctions to a geographically diverse customer base. The following table illustrates these volumes across our five reportable segments: 2025 Electric Power Supply (TWhs) Served (a ) __________ (a) Includes retail load and wholesale load auction volumes only. Electric generation in excess of our total retail and wholesale load would be sold in the respective RTO or ISO in which our facility is located. Other includes New England, South, and West. We are active in all domestic wholesale power and gas markets that span the entire lower 48 states and have complementary retail activity across many of those states. We typically obtain power supply from the market to meet our wholesale and retail obligations. Our market risk is mitigated by our owned and contracted generation located in multiple geographic regions. The commodity risks associated with the output from owned and contracted generation are managed using various commodity transactions including sales to retail customers, trades on commodity exchanges, bilateral contracts, and sales to wholesale counterparties in accordance with our hedging program. See further discussion of the hedging program in the Price and Supply Risk Management section below. The main objective is to obtain low-cost energy supply to meet physical delivery obligations to both our wholesale and retail customers. 15 Table of Contents Retail Market Retail competition in states across the U.S. range from full competition of energy suppliers for all retail customers (commercial, industrial, public sector, and residential) to partial retail competition available up to a capped amount for C&I customers only. We are a leader in retail energy supply, serving approximately 147 TWhs of electric power retail load primarily to C&I customers across multiple geographic regions in the U.S. We also served approximately 800 Bcf of gas in 2025. Geographically Diverse Footprint in Retail Market Strong customer relationships are a key part of our customer-facing business strategy, as demonstrated by our high renewal rates. Retail customer renewal rates have been strong over the last ten years across C&I power customer groups with average contract terms of approximately two years and customer duration of approximately six years, with many customers well beyond these metrics. Specifically, we enjoyed renewal rates of 77% for C&I power customers and 84% for C&I gas customers in 2025, owing to both our competitive pricing as well as our strong customer relationships. Our consistently high renewal rates are driven by our ability to provide customized solutions and deliver focused attention to our customers’ needs. We are also successful at acquiring new customers by offering innovative products and solutions that meet their needs. In addition to our high customer renewal rates, we have produced consistently high new win rates within C&I power as well, acquiring nearly one out of every three new customers who have chosen to shop with us over the past seven years. High customer satisfaction levels, market expertise, stability, and scale-driven growth have resulted in a historically proven business with consistent margins. While providing customers with a competitive price is a key focus, we leverage our broad suite of electric and gas product structures, oftentimes customized, to provide customers with the commodity solution and information that best fits their needs. It is this attention to the customer that creates the durable and repeatable value highlighted in these statistics. 16 Table of Contents Consumer purchasing strategies have trended from direct supply relationships to third-party relationships with several customers looking to third-party consultants and brokers to find suppliers like us to reduce costs and evaluate the increasing number of options available for expanding energy solutions beyond the commodity. In response, we have expanded our third-party capabilities, created scale through a comprehensive support structure, and enhanced digital applications providing tools, tracking, and measurement, as well as the ability to extend the reach of our sustainability solutions to drive additional market share. While this trend of customers using third parties to find suppliers has slowed in recent years, we have remained the market leader in direct C&I sales with over 32% of the C&I market share of direct customer business, driven by our highly experienced and long-tenor direct sales team. Wholesale Market Our wholesale channel-to-market involves the sale of electricity among electric utilities and electricity marketers before it is eventually sold to end-use consumers. In 2025, we served approximately 57 TWhs of power load across competitive utility load procurement and bilateral sales to municipalities, co-ops, and other wholesale entities. Complementary to our national retail customer portfolio, we have several decades of relationships with wholesale counterparties across all domestic power markets as a means of both monetizing our own generation, as well as sourcing contracted generation to meet customer and portfolio needs. With increased customer demand for sustainability and reliability, our ability to source contracted generation has provided a capital-light way for us to provide customers with long-term solutions they are demanding to support a clean and resilient energy ecosystem. This creates durable customer relationships and repeatable business through the ability to respond to customer and marketplace trends. Similarly, this contracting acumen provides the ability to supplement our native generation with other non-renewable assets to meet changing portfolio needs in a financially efficient manner. In our wholesale gas business, we participate across all parts of the gas value chain, including trading, transport and storage, and physical supply. Energy Solutions As one of the largest customer-facing platforms in the U.S., we benefit from significant economies of scale, that allow us to provide our customers with competitively priced energy and to structure highly tailored solutions targeted to a customer’s unique power needs and clean energy goals. Our CORe+ product serves C&I customers' sustainability needs by matching contracted, third-party new-build renewable generation with customer desire to add additional carbon-free generation to the grid with a preference to be located within the same region as their load. In 2025, we continued to see growing demand for our Hourly Carbon-Free Energy (CFE) product and platform, as we have closed several additional Hourly CFE transactions with a strong pipeline of interested prospects. Achieving 100% carbon-free power is a key sustainability goal for many organizations. As customers make the transition to 100% hourly carbon-free power, many are looking to bridge the gap between their real-time electricity demand and available sources of carbon-free power. Our Hourly CFE platform and associated products match carbon-free generation every hour with a customer’s load, along with appropriate tracking and retirement of hourly attributes in the applicable registry. Many existing CORe+ customers are converting to 100% Hourly CFE with existing nuclear filling in the gaps of the hours renewable generation is not producing. Further, we are seeing interest from large C&I customers in long-term contracting for our nuclear facilities for energy, capacity, and carbon-free attributes. In addition to larger-scale CORe+ offerings, bundled and unbundled long-term nuclear agreements, and Hourly CFE, we offer a range of sustainability solutions to customers (e.g., RECs, EFECs, RINs, RNG, carbon offsets, Demand Response, etc.) as well as offers for carbon-free generation attributes to support their needs during the transition to a carbon-free energy ecosystem. We also partner with our customers to provide energy efficiency options to meet their emissions-free energy goals. Our energy efficiency products provide the ability to optimize performance and maximize efficiency across customer facilities and operations through contract structures that include implementation of energy efficiency upgrades and behind-the-meter solutions with no upfront capital requirements. Additionally, these service offerings provide scalable solutions to meet sustainability goals through investment across the life of the facility or operations and allow for greater budget certainty. The ongoing ability to optimize energy consumption for customers allows us to support customer demands with the right combination of technology and efficiency program options. 17 Table of Contents In addition to sustainability solutions, data and analytics have also become increasingly important for our customers. Constellation Navigator delivers customized paths and sustainable solutions for customers to set and meet their environmental and energy management goals. Driven by advanced technology platforms and experienced advisors, it provides strategies to help organizations understand their baseline emissions and reduce their carbon footprints. Constellation Navigator helps businesses solve challenges across the energy lifecycle including utility bill management, carbon accounting, rebate administration, energy efficiency audits, and sustainability advisory services. These platforms and services provide new avenues for incremental growth by coupling the opportunities for customer usage optimization with accompanying products and sustainable solutions that we can provide to customers. These types of data and analytical services allow us to grow our customer base in previously inaccessible regulated markets by offering non-commodity energy-related products and sustainable solutions. We continue to look for new and innovative products and solutions to bring to our customers. Constellation Technology Ventures (CTV) is our venture investing business, focused on championing innovation and scaling breakthrough technologies. CTV invests in a broad range of companies developing products and solutions that expedite the shift towards cleaner, resilient, and sustainable forms of energy. Our portfolio spans diverse areas, and consists of both established and emerging companies looking to advance the energy industry. CTV collaborates with Constellation's operating businesses and customers, harnessing portfolio companies' strengths to propel mutual growth and value for all stakeholders. Price and Supply Risk Management We leverage a combination of wholesale and retail customer load sales, federal and state programs, as well as non-derivative and derivative contracts, all with credit-approved counterparties, to hedge the commodity price risk of our generation portfolio. Beginning in 2024, our existing nuclear fleet is eligible for a nuclear PTC, an important tool in managing commodity price risk for each nuclear unit not already receiving state support. The nuclear PTC provides increasing levels of support as unit revenues decline below levels established in the IRA and is further adjusted for inflation annually through the duration of the program based on the GDP price deflator for the preceding calendar year. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters and Note 6 — Government Assistance of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In locations and periods where our load serving activities do not naturally offset existing generation portfolio risk, remaining commodity price exposure is managed through portfolio hedging activities. Portfolio hedging activities are generally concentrated in the prompt three years, when customer demand and market liquidity enable effective price risk mitigation. During this prompt three-year period, we seek to mitigate price risk associated with our load serving contracts, non-nuclear generation, and any residual price risk for our nuclear generation that the nuclear PTC and state programs may not fully mitigate. We also enter transactions that further optimize the economic benefits of our overall portfolio. A portion of our hedging strategy may be implemented using fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices. Our risk management group monitors the financial risks of the wholesale and retail power marketing activities. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride, and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long-term contracts for uranium concentrates, conversion services, enrichment services, (or a combination thereof) and fabrication services, including contracts sourced from Russia. We have inventory in various forms and engage a diverse set of domestic and international suppliers to secure the nuclear fuel needed to continue to operate our nuclear fleet. We manage various risks around our nuclear fuel requirements in accordance with our fuel procurement policy limiting our transactions with each supplier to mitigate concentration of risk. The size of our inventory holdings and forward contractual coverage considers our refueling needs across multiple years to protect against supply disruptions and near-term price volatility, while allowing for capital flexibility. Our fuel procurement activities comply with all U.S. and international trade laws and we continue to take advantage of all available avenues to ensure continuity in our nuclear fuel supply, including working with the U.S. government and our diverse set of suppliers to secure the nuclear fuel needed to continue to operate our nuclear fleet long-term. 18 Table of Contents Natural gas is procured through long-term and short-term contracts, as well as through spot-market purchases. We also enter into natural gas transportation and storage contracts that allow us to source reliable and cost-effective natural gas for our fleet and to take advantage of favorable market pricing, regardless of when the gas is used in our operations. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that, in the winter months, sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 15 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for additional information on hedging and risk management. Seasonality Our operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity and natural gas. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity and the available supply of electricity. With respect to the electric business, very warm weather in summer months and, with respect to the electric and natural gas businesses, very cold weather in winter months is generally referred to as “favorable weather conditions” because those weather conditions result in increased demand for electricity and natural gas. Conversely, mild weather reduces demand. As a result, our operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis, especially when more severe weather conditions such as heat waves or extreme winter weather make such fluctuations more pronounced. The pattern of this fluctuation may change depending on the type and location of the facilities owned, the wholesale and retail load served and the terms of contracts to purchase or sell electricity. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for additional information. Weather can also impact our operating conditions. See ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS for additional information regarding risks related to operational factors. To mitigate the potential for weather to impact our operations, we conduct seasonal readiness reviews at our power plants to ensure availability of fuel supplies and equipment performance before entering the summer and winter seasons. We also consider and review national climate assessments to inform our longer-term planning. Our nuclear assets are resilient to weather extremes and are capable of generating emissions-free electricity 24 hours a day, even during unexpectedly cold winter events and hot summer events. Insurance We are subject to liability, property damage, and other risks associated with major incidents at our generating stations. We have reduced our financial exposure to these risks through insurance, both property damage and liability, and other industry risk-sharing provisions. We also maintain business interruption insurance for certain of our renewable assets, but not for our other generating stations unless required by contract or financing agreements. We are self-insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained or are within the policy deductible for our insured losses. See Note 18 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for insurance specific to our nuclear facilities. 19 Table of Contents Regulation FERC Regulation. CEG Parent's subsidiaries include public utilities as defined under the Federal Power Act that are subject to FERC’s exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Under the Federal Power Act, FERC has the authority to grant or deny market-based rates for sales of energy, capacity, and ancillary services to ensure that such sales are just and reasonable. FERC’s jurisdiction over ratemaking includes the authority to suspend the market-based rates of utilities and set cost-based rates should FERC find that its previous grant of market-based rates authority is no longer just and reasonable. Other matters subject to FERC jurisdiction include, but are not limited to, emergency orders requiring power plants to operate or mandate temporary electricity connections; certain third-party financings; review of certain mergers involving public utilities; certain dispositions of jurisdictional facilities and acquisitions of securities of another public utility or an existing operational generating facility; certain affiliate transactions; certain intercompany financings and cash management arrangements; certain internal corporate reorganizations; and certain holding company acquisitions of public utility and holding company securities. RTOs and ISOs are FERC-regulated entities that exist in several regions to provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. FERC has approved PJM, MISO, ISO-NE, and SPP as RTOs and CAISO and NYISO as ISOs. These entities are responsible for regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, market monitoring, and the scheduling of physical power transactions in the region. ERCOT is not subject to regulation by FERC but performs a similar function in Texas to that performed by RTOs and ISOs in markets regulated by FERC. NRC Regulation. We are subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to the operation of our nuclear generating facilities, including the licensing for operation of each unit. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security, and environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. As part of its Reactor Oversight Process, the NRC continuously assesses unit performance indicators and inspection results and communicates its assessment on a semi-annual basis. The NRC may modify, suspend, or revoke operating licenses and impose violations and/or civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, NRC regulations, or the terms of the operating licenses or orders. Changes in requirements by the NRC may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures and/or operating costs for our nuclear generating facilities. NRC regulations also require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. We meet the ultimate decommissioning funding obligation through the use of dedicated NDT funds. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — Liquidity and Capital Resources; Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations; and Note 10 — Asset Retirement Obligations and Note 17 — Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial statements for additional information regarding our NDT funds and decommissioning obligations. Our operations are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other federal, state, regional, and local agencies, and federal and state environmental protection agencies. Additionally, we are subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards, which protect the nation’s bulk power system against potential disruptions from cyber and physical security breaches. Active External Engagement Our business is at the intersection of heavy capital deployment, complex microeconomics and high-profile public policy. Through active external engagement with key stakeholders on behalf of our business and customers, we believe we can support the effective design and operation of the electric markets. We are the nation’s largest producer of clean and reliable energy and following the Calpine merger we are the largest private-sector power producer in the world, and we bring an informed perspective to public policy discussions at the state, regional and national levels. Our consistently rigorous and balanced advocacy has made our perspective one that is sought out by key decision makers when considering the path forward in legislative and policy arenas. 20 Table of Contents Strategy and Outlook Strategy We believe shareholder value is built on a foundation of operational excellence and the pairing of our reliable energy fleet with our customer-facing platform. We are committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings. We focus on optimizing cash returns through a disciplined approach to safe and efficient operations and cost management, underpinned by stable and durable margins from our customer-facing business and coupled with distinct payments to our generation plants for the clean, reliable, and available energy they provide to customers. We may pursue future growth opportunities that provide additional value building on our core businesses, or expanding our competitive advantages. We are committed to maintaining a strong balance sheet, providing our customers with cost-effective and sustainable solutions to meet their energy needs, and returning value to our shareholders. The demand for reliable, emissions-free energy and sustainability solutions continues to grow across the country. We aim to meet the growing energy needs of all our customers. We continue to serve as a partner to businesses and public entities to help meet their energy and sustainability needs. We are committed to maintaining sufficient financial liquidity and an appropriate capital structure to support safe, secure and reliable operations, even in volatile market conditions. We believe our investment grade credit rating is a competitive advantage and we intend to maintain our credit position and best-in-class balance sheet. In line with that commitment, available cash flow will first be used to meet investment grade credit targets, with incremental capital allocated towards disciplined growth and shareholder return. We will build upon a strong compliance and risk management foundation and recognize the critical role this serves in maximizing operational results. We will continue to manage cash flow volatility through prudent risk management strategies across our business. Growth Opportunities. We continually evaluate growth opportunities aligned with our businesses, assets, and markets leveraging our expertise in those areas and offering durable returns. We may pursue growth opportunities that optimize our core business or expand upon our strengths, including, but not limited to the following: • Opportunistic energy acquisitions and generation development opportunities with a focus on reliability, • Create new value from the existing fleet through nuclear uprates and license extensions, repowering of renewables, serving data economy customers, long-term power purchase agreements, and other opportunities, • Grow solutions for our customers focused on clean energy, efficiency, storage and electrification; help our C&I customers develop and meet sustainability targets, and • Continue to monitor opportunities to participate in advanced nuclear and CCUS as well as investments in battery storage and solar to maintain our leadership position as stewards of an emissions-free energy future. We will employ a disciplined approach to acquisitions that grow future cash flow and support strategic initiatives. This strategy was realized, in part, with the acquisition of Calpine, a combination that brings together premier nuclear, natural gas, and geothermal fleets with a leading commercial platform to deliver innovative customer solutions and strengthen U.S. energy leadership, national security, and economic prosperity. See Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our acquisition of Calpine. Various market, financial, regulatory, legislative and operational factors could affect our success in pursuing these strategies. We continue to assess infrastructure, operational, policy, and legal solutions to these issues. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS for additional information. 21 Table of Contents Outlook The U.S. energy sector is undergoing unprecedented transformation, which we believe will drive significant growth in demand for reliable, clean power generation and benefit our business. Our diversified generation fleet, including our industry-leading nuclear assets, is well-positioned to meet this rising demand for dependable emissions-free electricity. Key drivers of increased demand include: • Expanded policy support for nuclear energy that enhances energy security, reliability and system diversity, • Federal and state incentives for new and resilient generation to support grid stability, • Rapid data center growth, increasing large-scale, around-the-clock load requirements, • Electrification across the economy, including transportation, buildings, and industrial processes, • Onshoring and expansion of domestic manufacturing to strengthen U.S. supply chains, and • Evolving customer preferences that favor clean energy, greater choice, transparency, and digitization. Policy Support for Nuclear Energy. We expect our nuclear generation fleet to continue playing a vital role in meeting the nation's baseload power needs. Nuclear energy remains the largest source of zero-emissions electricity in the U.S., providing more than half of all emissions-free power. Our nuclear plants are significant contributors to the clean energy mix in the states in which they operate. Federal policymakers from both parties have underscored the importance of preserving existing nuclear assets through the nuclear PTC enacted in the IRA and maintained under the OBBBA. The action by New York to extend the NY ZEC program in January 2026 reaffirms that states recognize that existing nuclear generation facilities are essential to meeting their policy objectives to reduce GHG emissions. In addition, a number of states including Delaware, New Jersey, Illinois, Maryland, New York, and Texas, are currently drafting bills to add nuclear energy to clean energy targets by repealing bans, studying methods to accelerate their development, or in some cases, providing financial incentives to drive their construction. Beyond emissions reductions, nuclear energy supports high-quality jobs, strengthens regional economies, and enhances the reliability and security of the electrical grid. In alignment with this supportive policy landscape, we intend to file applications to extend the licenses of our nuclear units to 80 years where long-term policy support continues to be available. Policy Support for New, Reliable Generation. With our significantly increased presence in Texas following the Calpine acquisition, our fleet is positioned to play a critical role in ensuring reliability within ERCOT. In November 2023, Texas voters approved a state constitutional amendment to create the TEF, which provides up to $7.2 billion in low-interest loans and completion bonuses to support as much as 10 GW of new dispatchable generation statewide. Project selections announced in Fall 2025 included a $278 million loan for Calpine's 460 MW Pin Oak Creek peaking facility. Policy mechanisms like the TEF are essential to maintaining the reliability of the Texas energy market by enhancing the economic viability of new dispatchable generation. In Maryland, the Next Generation Energy Act of 2025 directed the Maryland Public Service Commission (MPSC) to solicit and approve applications for dispatchable and large-capacity resources through an expedited Certification of Public Convenience and Necessity process. We submitted multiple proposals, and the MPSC approved our application to advance more than 700 MW of natural gas generation under the streamlined pathway. We are also continuing to evaluate additional resource options for Maryland, including battery storage projects, under a separate solicitation established by the Next Generation Energy Act. Data Center Growth. The rapid expansion of data centers continues to accelerate, driven by widespread adoption of AI technologies and large-scale infrastructure investments by major hyperscalers such as Microsoft, Google, Meta, and Amazon. This growth is creating unprecedented demand for reliable, around-the-clock electricity in the U.S. and globally. According to the DOE, data centers are amongst the most energy-intensive building types, consuming 10 to 50 times more energy per square foot than a typical commercial office building. As AI workloads scale and computing needs increase, the energy requirements of data centers are expected to grow substantially, further reinforcing the need for dependable, 24/7 power supply. 22 Table of Contents Electrification. Efforts to optimize our energy infrastructure and reduce GHG emissions are expected to drive continued electrification of the U.S. economy, including transportation, industrial processes, heating and cooling, and household appliances. This transition has the potential to materially increase overall electricity demand. For companies like ours, whose core strength lies in safely generating and delivering electricity and related energy solutions, this growing demand represents a natural and meaningful opportunity for long-term growth. Onshoring of Manufacturing. Recent federal industrial policy, most notably the CHIPS and Science Act and the IRA, explicitly incentivize the return of manufacturing and supply‑chain capacity back to the United States. This resurgence in domestic industrial activity is driving a meaningful increase in electricity demand, as new facilities are both expanding and becoming more energy intensive. These trends are further amplified by broader shifts such as electrification and rapid data center growth. The resulting load growth presents a strategic opportunity for our business as our expanded generation fleet is well positioned to enable this national policy objective. Evolving Customer Preferences. Consumers are increasingly purpose-driven and knowledgeable about solutions that reduce emissions. As a result, they place greater value on being able to trace the sources of their clean energy. Rising awareness of climate change and clean energy options is fueling demand for value-added products and services, such as solar, behind-the-meter storage, EV charging, and the ability to choose 100% clean power 24/7 in competitive retail energy markets. Customers are also showing heightened interest in long-term energy agreements that provide price stability and reliability. At the same time, continued innovation and digitization across the economy are empowering customers with more visibility and control over their energy usage. This increased engagement enables both residential and business customers to make more informed choices about their energy supply and the products and solutions we provide. Environmental Matters and Regulation We are subject to comprehensive and complex environmental legislation and regulation at the federal, state, and local levels, including requirements relating to climate change, air and water quality, solid and hazardous waste, and impacts on species and habitats. Our Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. We have a management team to address environmental compliance and strategy, including the CEO, and other members of senior management. Performance of those individuals directly involved in environmental compliance and strategy is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. Our Board of Directors has delegated to its Nuclear Oversight Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee the authority to oversee our compliance with health, environmental, and safety laws and regulations and strategies and efforts to protect the environment as discussed in further detail below. GHG & Climate Risks Many states, corporations, and investors have advocated for the reduction of GHG emissions across all sectors of the economy, including GHG emissions from the energy sector. Additionally, many large corporations have adopted targets to reduce the carbon emissions in their business operations. We believe our fleet is well-positioned to benefit from policy for decarbonization. We also face climate mitigation and transition risks as well as adaptation risks. Mitigation and transition risks include changes to the energy systems as a result of new technologies, changing customer expectations, and/or voluntary GHG reduction goals, as well as policies intended to reduce GHG emissions. Adaptation risk refers to risks to our facilities or operations that may result from changes in the physical climate, such as changes to temperatures, weather patterns, and sea level rise. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS for additional information. We produce electricity predominantly from low- and emissions-free generating facilities (such as nuclear, natural gas, hydroelectric, geothermal, wind, and solar) and neither own nor operate any coal-fueled generating assets. Our natural gas and oil generating plants produce GHGs, most notably CO2. We have made investments in developing CCUS technologies to reduce GHG emissions. In addition, we sell natural gas through our customer-facing business; and consumers’ use of such natural gas produces GHG emissions. In 2025, we achieved a 94.7% capacity factor across our nuclear fleet and our ownership of 22 GWs of emissions-free generation capacity at 25 nuclear units produced 183 TWhs of electricity. Our Scope 1 and 2 market-based GHG emissions in 2024 were 8.5 million metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent, of which 8.2 million metric tons were from our 23 Table of Contents natural gas and oil-fueled generation fleet, significantly less than our peers with similar volume of power generation. We continue to have the lowest carbon intensity (rate of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emitted per unit of electricity generated) among the ten largest U.S. generators following the acquisition of Calpine. Regulation of GHGs from Power Plants under the Clean Air Act. In April 2024, EPA issued a final rule that regulates greenhouse gases from existing coal, new natural gas-fired power plants, and existing oil/gas steam generators under Clean Air Act section 111. In June 2025, EPA issued a proposal to repeal its regulations addressing GHG emissions from the sector. In February 2026, EPA issued a final rule to repeal the 2009 “Endangerment Finding” underpinning all GHG regulation by EPA. EPA is expected to separately finalize its repeal of power sector GHG regulations in 2026, which will directly address the compliance obligations under those rules. State Climate Legislation and Regulation. Many states in which we operate have state and regional programs to reduce GHG emissions and renewable and other portfolio standards, which impact the power sector. 25 states and the District of Columbia have 100% clean energy targets, deep GHG reduction targets, or both, encompassing 55% of U.S. residential electricity customers. As the nation’s largest generator of emissions-free electricity, our fleet supports these efforts to produce safe, reliable, clean electricity. In 2019, New York enacted the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act, which commits the state to achieving net-zero emissions by 2050, with requirements in 2030 and 2040. New Jersey’s Energy Master Plan supports the state’s goal of a 100% clean energy economy by 2050. The state's Global Warming Response Act targeted GHG emissions reductions of 80% below 2006 levels by 2050 which was subsequently accelerated by Executive Order 315 targeting 100% clean energy by 2035. The 2021 Illinois Clean Energy Law is designed to achieve 100% carbon-free power by 2045. It establishes decarbonization requirements for Illinois as well as programs to support the retention and development of emissions-free sources of electricity. Our nuclear plants are meaningful contributors to the clean energy mix where they operate. States may not be able to meet their emissions-reduction goals without our nuclear plants, which provide a significant portion of the current emissions-free power. Several states have established policies to support nuclear generation driven by recognition that existing nuclear generation facilities are essential to meeting policy objectives on GHG emissions, supporting jobs and regional economies, and ensuring reliability and security of the electrical grid through resource diversity. These policies preserve the environmental attributes of our nuclear facilities, and include the following: Policy Name Year Enacted Nuclear Facilities Impacted Type of Program Year of Expiration New York Clean Energy Standard 2016 FitzPatrick, Ginna, and NMP ZEC 2049 Illinois Zero Emission Standard 2016 Clinton and Quad Cities ZEC 2027 New Jersey Clean Energy Legislation 2018 Salem ZEC 2025 (a) Illinois Clean Energy Law 2021 Byron, Braidwood, and Dresden CMC 2027 __________ (a) The contracts entered into under the New Jersey Clean Energy Legislation program concluded in May 2025. In January 2026, the NYPSC approved a 20-year extension of its ZEC program to sustain the state’s nuclear power plants through 2049. The extension is designed to preserve the state's carbon-free electricity supply and ensure grid reliability. The structure of the NY ZEC program remains largely intact, with similar rate-setting methodology, adjusted over time for inflation through 2049. Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI). The RGGI program requires most fossil fuel-fired power plants in the region to hold allowances, sold at auction or on the secondary market, for each ton of CO2 emissions. The following states are currently participants in RGGI; Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, and Vermont. Pennsylvania never entered the RGGI program, and its budget bill for fiscal year 2025-2026 legislatively abrogated the state’s RGGI regulations. 24 Table of Contents Renewable and Clean Energy Standards. Most states where we operate have adopted some form of renewable or clean energy procurement requirement. These standards impose varying levels of mandates for procurement of renewable or clean electricity (the definition of which varies by state) and/or energy efficiency, generally expressed as a percentage of annual electric load, often increasing by year. Load serving entities comply with these various requirements through purchasing qualifying renewables, acquiring sufficient certificates (e.g., RECs), paying an alternative compliance payment, and/or a combination of these compliance alternatives. Corporate Clean Energy Targets. Corporations face incentives from their customers and investors to align their businesses with environmental and sustainability objectives, including goals to reduce GHG emissions in their business operations. A number of corporations are making commitments to reducing their GHG emissions, either through procuring increasing amounts of clean energy, such as RECs, EFECs, or emissions offsets, to offset their carbon footprint over time. Recent examples include the PPA with Microsoft that will support the restart of Crane and the PPA with Meta for the output of Clinton which supports Meta's clean energy goals and the continued operations of Clinton. Emerging Clean Technologies. The need for new clean, reliable sources of power that can scale, decarbonize the system, and meet new load requirements is leading to rapid advancements in emerging technologies like advanced nuclear power, CCUS, energy storage, advanced geothermal and hydrogen. The improvements in advanced nuclear including Small Modular Reactors (SMR), growing state and federal support, and the potential to rapidly reduce costs with scaled deployment create a potential path to market for new nuclear within the next decade. CCUS is similarly experiencing substantial investment. It also is expected that energy storage will continue to see high levels of investment driven by lower costs and improved technology, state mandates, a backlog of storage projects in the interconnection queue, and utilities seeking large-scale storage capacity to support higher renewables penetration. Advanced geothermal has similar opportunities to scale supply with early deployments de-risking the technologies. Collectively, advanced nuclear, carbon sequestration, energy storage, geothermal, and clean hydrogen are expected to help support emissions reduction goals. Other Environmental Regulation Water Quality Clean Water Act Section 316(b) requires that the cooling water intake structures at facilities that withdraw more than 2 million gallons of water per day for cooling reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts. Our power generation facilities with cooling water intake systems are subject to the EPA’s 2014 regulations, which are implemented through NPDES permit renewals. We have completed all required studies and have submitted recommendations for compliance as part of the NPDES/SPDES renewal process. We have submitted the NPDES/SPDES renewal timely for all our owned and operated nuclear stations. Six of the twelve stations we operate and STP have been deemed compliant with the 316(b) rule using existing technology. Until the compliance requirements are determined by the applicable state permitting director for each of the six remaining nuclear stations, on a site-specific basis, we cannot estimate the effect that compliance with the EPA’s 2014 rule will have on the operation of our generating facilities and our consolidated financial statements. EPA's rule does not mandate cooling towers or wedge wire screens and allows state permitting directors to require alternative, less costly technologies and/or operational measures, based on a site-specific assessment of the feasibility, costs, and benefits of available options. Should a state permitting director determine that a facility must install cooling towers or wedge wire screens to comply with the rule, that facility’s economic viability could be called into question. In July 2016, the NJDEP issued a final permit for Salem requiring 316(b) studies and deferring the Agency's selection of a final compliance technology. The permit allows Salem to continue to operate utilizing the existing cooling water intake system. The permit was challenged by an environmental organization, and in August 2025, NJDEP Commissioner issued the final agency decision adopting the Office of Administrative Law's initial decision from November 2024 in full. This upheld the 2016 permit and rejected all challenges from the petitioners. Our hydroelectric and nuclear facilities are required to secure a federal license or permit for activities that may result in a discharge to covered waters. We are required to obtain a state water quality certification for those facilities under Clean Water Act section 401. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the status of the 401 Certification from MDE for Conowingo. 25 Table of Contents We are also subject to the jurisdiction of the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission, regional agencies that primarily regulate water usage. Solid and Hazardous Waste and Environmental Remediation CERCLA authorizes response to releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment, while RCRA primarily regulates ongoing hazardous waste handling and disposal. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, and past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of hazardous substances at sites. These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with an EPA-directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the EPA concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight. Most states have also enacted similar statutes that may apply in many states where we currently own or operate, or previously owned or operated facilities. In addition, RCRA governs treatment, storage, and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted. Our operations have in the past, and may in the future, require substantial expenditures to comply with these federal and state environmental laws. We may be liable for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances generated or transported by us. We own or lease several real estate parcels, including parcels on which our operations or the operations of others may have resulted in contamination by substances that are considered hazardous under environmental laws. We are, or could become in the future, parties to proceedings initiated by the EPA, state agencies, and/or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA or similar state laws with respect to several sites, or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which we may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third party. We have established appropriate contingent liabilities for environmental remediation requirements. In addition, we may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable for other environmental remediation costs. See Note 18 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our environmental matters, remediation efforts, and related impacts to our consolidated financial statements. Nuclear Waste Storage and Disposal There are no facilities for the reprocessing or permanent disposal of SNF currently in operation in the United States, nor has the NRC licensed any such facilities. We currently store all SNF generated by our nuclear generating facilities on-site in storage pools or in dry cask storage facilities. Since our SNF storage pools generally do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective plant, we have developed dry cask storage facilities to support operations. All our nuclear sites have on-site dry cask storage. On-site dry cask storage in concert with on-site storage pools can meet all current and future SNF storage requirements at each of our sites, including Crane, for the duration of both current and subsequent license periods of all stations and through decommissioning. As of December 31, 2025, we had approximately 97,600 SNF assemblies (23,900 tons) stored on-site in SNF pools or dry cask storage. For a discussion of matters associated with our contracts with the DOE for the disposal of SNF, see Note 18 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generating units produce LLRW. LLRW is accumulated at each generating station and permanently disposed of at licensed disposal facilities. The Federal Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980 provides that states may enter into agreements to provide regional disposal facilities for LLRW and restrict use of those facilities to waste generated within the region. Illinois and Kentucky have entered into such an agreement, although neither state currently has an operational site, and none is anticipated to be operational for the next ten years. We ship our Class A LLRW, which represents 93% of LLRW generated at our stations, to disposal facilities in Utah and South Carolina, which have enough storage capacity to store all Class A LLRW for the duration of both current and subsequent license periods for all the stations in our nuclear fleet. 26 Table of Contents We utilize on-site storage capacity at all our stations to store and stage for shipping Class B and Class C LLRW. We have a contract through 2040 to ship Class B and Class C LLRW to a disposal facility in Texas. The agreement provides for disposal of all Class B and Class C LLRW currently stored at each station as well as the Class B and Class C LLRW generated during the term of the agreement. However, because the production of LLRW from our nuclear fleet will exceed the capacity at the Texas site (3.9 million curies through 2027, with applications submitted by the facility for a 10-year extension and an increase in storage capacity), we will still be required to utilize on-site storage at our stations for Class B and Class C LLRW. We currently have enough storage capacity to store all Class B and Class C LLRW for the duration of both current and subsequent license periods for of all the stations in our nuclear fleet and we continue to pursue alternative disposal strategies for LLRW, including an LLRW reduction program to minimize on-site storage and cost impacts. Employees Engaged Workforce Our employees are our greatest strength. We strive to create a workplace that is inclusive, innovative, and safe for our employees. In order to provide the services and products that our customers expect, we focus on creating the best teams to foster teamwork, mutual respect and the empowerment of employees to contribute at their full potential. We strive to attract highly qualified talent and review our hiring, development and promotion practices to maintain equal opportunity and non-discriminatory processes. We develop our future highly skilled workforce by focusing on three main areas: (1) elevating career awareness by promoting STEM and energy career pathways; (2) fostering equal opportunities for all individuals; and (3) advancing the skills of workers by investing in training, reskilling, and upskilling programs. We conducted an employee engagement survey in 2024 to gain insight into engagement and job satisfaction within our workforce, followed by a pulse survey in 2025. We use these surveys to help identify our successes and opportunities for growth. The survey results are shared with leaders at all levels and they are also part of action planning to increase engagement. A robust action planning process is implemented that integrates both centralized action for organization-wide issues and leader-led action for areas unique to their own work groups and/or business areas. Career Development We strive to prepare our workforce for the future and help our employees develop competencies to progress in their careers. We work to continuously enhance the knowledge and skills of our workforce through formal assessments, feedback, coaching, mentoring, training, leadership and other development programs. Well-Being and Benefits We help our employees maintain and improve their overall well-being, and we offer a wide range of benefits that support physical, mental, financial, and family health. Our comprehensive benefits help our employees care for themselves and their families, now and in the future. Community We actively invest in community development through philanthropic giving and employee volunteerism. We work to build a future in which all our employees, customers, business associates and communities benefit from social, environmental and economic progress. We provide opportunities for company-sponsored volunteerism and charitable matching gifts programs. Our employees donated $5.6 million to non-profit organizations of their choice and provided 128,900 volunteer service hours in 2025. Next Generation of Talent We aim to attract, retain and advance a world-class workforce that effectively serves our customers and communities. We work toward this objective by sourcing from and developing a broad talent pipeline and cultivating an inclusive and respectful culture where all individuals can develop to reach their full potential. In 2025, we hired over 2,100 employees. 27 Table of Contents Through our talent acquisition strategy, we work with universities and organizations to attract and recruit STEM-focused students and professionals. Through these collaborations, we participate in mentoring programs, conferences, career fairs and industry events to identify highly skilled talent who may be interested in applying for employment. Workforce We provide training and review hiring and promotion processes and perform pay equity analyses. These actions help to create an environment where all employees can thrive and advance based on merit. The following table shows total number of employees, management, and executives as of December 31, 2025: Metric All Employees Full-Time 15,291 Part-Time 48 Total Employees 15,339 Metric All Employees Regular (a) 15,279 Temporary (b) 60 Total Employees 15,339 __________ (a) Regular employees hold a position where employment is for an indeterminate period and the position is expected to continue on an ongoing basis. (b) Temporary employees hold a position (with or without a contract) for a limited period with an expected end date, typically based on completion of a specific assignment, project, or event. Turnover Rates As turnover is inherent, management succession planning is performed and tracked for executives enterprise-wide. Management frequently reviews succession planning to be prepared when positions become available. The table below shows the turnover rate for regular employees for the year ended December 31, 2025: Involuntary Termination 1.3 % Retirement (a) 2.3 % Voluntary Resignation 3.3 % __________ (a) For reporting purposes, reflects employees who were at least 55 years of age and had at least 10 years of service at the time they ended employment. Collective Bargaining Agreements As of December 31, 2025 approximately 23% of all employees participate in CBAs. The following table presents employee information, including information about CBAs, as of December 31, 2025: Total Employees Covered by CBAs (a) Total Number of CBAs (a) New and Renewed CBAs in 2025 (b) Total Employees Under New and Renewed CBAs in 2025 3,584 21 3 597 __________ (a) Does not include 8 CBAs that were assumed following the acquisition of Calpine in January 2026, representing 177 employees. (b) Does not include CBAs that expired in 2025 but are operating under interim extension agreements while negotiations are ongoing for renewal. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a complex market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our direct control. Such risks, which could negatively affect our results of operations or financial condition, fall primarily under the categories below: Risks related to market and financial factors primarily include: • the price and availability of fuels, • the generation resources in the markets in which we operate, • the design of power markets, • our ability to operate our generating assets, • our ability to access capital markets, • the impacts of ongoing competition, and • emerging technologies, business models, and demand driven by industry trends, including those related to climate change mitigation and transition to a low-emissions economy. Risks related to legislative, regulatory, and legal factors primarily include changes to, and compliance with, the laws and regulations that govern: • the renewal of operating licenses, • the ability to retire or repower units, • energy policy, including market design, • environmental and climate policy, and • tax policy. Risks related to operational factors primarily include: • changes in the global climate could produce extreme weather events, which could put our facilities at risk, and such changes could also affect the levels and patterns of demand for energy and related services, • the safe, secure and effective operation of our facilities and the ability to effectively manage nuclear decommissioning obligations, • physical, cybersecurity, and third-party reliability risks for us as an owner-operator of generation facilities and as a participant in commodities trading, • rapid development and integration of AI technologies, • ability to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, and • acquisitions or investments in new business initiatives and new markets. Risks related to the acquisition of Calpine primarily include: • no assurance of the dividends at the current rate post-acquisition, reduced ownership and voting power for current shareholders, and potential dilution to earnings per share, • integration challenges including the complex, costly and time-consuming integration process with potential unknown liabilities, and the possible loss of key employees and customers, and 29 Table of Contents • legal and regulatory risks such as potential lawsuits and substantial costs, as well as valuation risk, which could negatively impact future operating results. Risks Related to Market and Financial Factors We are exposed to price volatility associated with both the wholesale and retail power markets and the procurement of nuclear fuel, natural gas, and oil. We are exposed to commodity price risk for fuel and the unhedged portion of our generation portfolio. Our earnings and cash flows are therefore exposed to variability of spot and forward market prices in the markets in which we operate. Price of Fuels. The spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the marginal cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Thus, the market price of power is affected by the market price of the marginal fuel, in particular the price of natural gas, used to generate the electricity unit. Cost and Availability of Fuel. We depend on nuclear fuel, natural gas, and oil to operate most of our generating facilities. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, natural gas, and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions, tariffs, counterparty default, and geopolitical risk, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Geopolitical risks specific to nuclear fuel include the ongoing Russia and Ukraine conflict which has yielded sanctions and legislation by the United States, United Kingdom, European Union, Russia, and Canada impacting the exports and imports of Russian nuclear fuel. An example of such sanctions includes the “Prohibiting Russian Uranium Imports Act” which bans the import of low-enriched uranium into the U.S. that is produced in Russia or by Russian entities, absent a waiver from the DOE. The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel is complex, and we engage a diverse set of suppliers to secure the nuclear fuel needed to continue to operate our nuclear fleet long-term. Non-performance by these suppliers could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS – Price and Supply Risk Management and ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for additional information on the nuclear fuel cycle and procurement. Demand and Supply. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity and the available supply of electricity. Unfavorable economic conditions, milder than normal weather, regulatory intervention, and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can rapidly increase supply or depress demand. In addition, in some markets, the supply of electricity can exceed demand during some hours of the day, resulting in lower market prices, including periods of negative pricing, and loss of revenue for baseload generating plants such as our nuclear plants. Retail Competition. Our retail operations compete for customers in a competitive environment, which affects the margins we can earn and the volumes we are able to serve. In periods of sustained low natural gas and power prices and low market volatility, retail competitors can aggressively pursue market share because the barriers to entry can be low and wholesale generators (including us) use their retail operations to hedge generation output. Likewise, retail competition is dependent upon continued support of the host state, and state legislative sessions can present repeated opportunities for adjustment and full or partial repeal of retail competition in certain markets. Market Design. The wholesale markets vary from region to region with distinct rules, practices, and procedures. Changes in these market rules, problems with rule implementation, or failure of any of these markets could adversely affect our business with little notice. The imposition of price caps, the issuance of orders extending the operation of generation resources slated for retirement, the imposition of requirements that new large load secure supply from new generation resources or agree to be interrupted, policies allowing utility-owned generation in restructured states, and policies favoring new resources at the expense of existing resources may lead to a market design that results in the premature retirement of existing resources, which would negatively affect our portfolio of assets as well as the market as a whole. For example, PJM is considering market rule changes as part of its stakeholder process, and the Trump administration, in conjunction with Governors of PJM states, have proposed a framework to govern new load connection and the generation that can serve that load. The outcome of this process is uncertain. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 30 Table of Contents Condition and Results of Operations - Other Key Business Drivers for additional information on proposed PJM market reforms. Our risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with our commodity trading activities. Our asset-based power position as well as our power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We buy and sell energy and other products and enter financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in our portfolio. We are exposed to volatility in financial results for unhedged positions as well as the risk of ineffective hedges. We attempt to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when our policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations could be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power, natural gas and other energy-related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, we cannot predict the impact that our commodity trading activities and risk management decisions could have on our results of operations or financial condition. Financial performance and load requirements could be negatively affected if we are unable to effectively manage our power portfolio. A significant portion of our power portfolio is used to provide power under procurement contracts with load serving entities and other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, our output is sold in the wholesale power markets. To the extent our power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of our customers under the related agreements, we must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Our financial results could be negatively affected if we are unable to cost-effectively meet the load requirements of our customers, manage our power portfolio or effectively address the changes in the wholesale power markets. We may be affected by emerging technologies that could, over time, affect or transform the energy industry. Advancements in both distributed and utility-scale power generation technology could impact market prices and demand size and behaviors. For instance, commercial and residential solar generation installations, energy storage improvements that include batteries and fuel cells, and other emerging technologies are improving the cost-effectiveness of customer self-supply of electricity. Improvements in energy efficiency of lighting, appliances, equipment and building materials will also affect energy consumption by customers. Advancements in nuclear technology, CCUS, storage and advanced geothermal may contribute to a substantial increase in the supply of clean, reliable baseload power, impacting market prices. CCUS technology may also allow for gas generation to continue to be a viable source of clean electricity and provide for future growth of clean gas-powered generation. Further, advancements in AI and other technology could lead to reduced barriers of entry resulting in increased competition from new market participants. These developments could affect the price of energy, levels of customer-owned generation, customer expectations and current business models and make portions of our generation facilities uneconomic prior to the end of their useful lives. These technologies could also result in further declines in commodity prices or demand for delivered energy. Each of these factors could affect our results of operations or financial condition through, among other things, reduced operating revenues, increased operating and maintenance expenses, increased capital expenditures, and potential asset impairment charges or accelerated depreciation and decommissioning expenses over shortened remaining asset useful lives. Market performance and other factors could decrease the value of our NDT funds and employee benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. Disruptions in the capital markets and their actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the broader economy could adversely affect the value of the investments held within our NDTs and employee benefit plan trusts. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold substantial assets in these trusts to meet those 31 Table of Contents obligations. The asset values are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which could fall below our projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the NDT fund investments could increase our funding requirements to decommission our nuclear plants. A decline in the market value of the pension and OPEB plan assets would increase the funding requirements associated with our pension and OPEB plan obligations. Additionally, our pension and OPEB plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit costs and funding requirements. See Note 10 — Asset Retirement Obligations and Note 14 — Retirement Benefits of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We could be negatively affected by unstable capital and credit markets and increased volatility in commodity markets. We rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets in the United States or abroad could negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets or draw on our bank revolving credit facilities. The banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. The inability to access capital markets or credit facilities, and longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could result in the deferral of discretionary capital expenditures, affect our ability to effectively hedge our generation portfolio, require changes to our hedging strategy in order to reduce collateral posting requirements, or require a reduction in discretionary uses of cash. In addition, we have exposure to worldwide financial markets, including Europe, Canada, and Asia. Disruptions in these markets could reduce or restrict our ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2025, approximately 26%, 8%, and 13% of our available credit facilities were with European, Canadian, and Asian banks, respectively. The strength and depth of competition in energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which could be negatively affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets and legislative and regulatory initiatives that could affect participants in commodities transactions. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts. If we were to experience a downgrade in our credit ratings to below investment grade or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards in our agreements with our counterparties or regulatory financial requirements, we would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral that could affect our liquidity and we could experience higher borrowing costs. Our business is subject to credit quality standards that could require us to post collateral for our obligations upon a decline in ratings. We are also subject to certain financial requirements under NRC regulations as a result of our operation of nuclear power plants that could require us to provide cash collateral or surety bonds if those requirements are not met. One or both events could adversely affect available liquidity and, in the case of a rating downgrade, borrowing and credit support costs. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Credit Matters and Cash Requirements – Security Ratings and Note 15 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the potential impacts of credit downgrades on our cash flows. If we fail to meet project-specific financing agreement requirements, we could experience an impairment or loss of the financed project. We have project-specific financing arrangements and must meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings. Failure to meet those arrangements could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the specific project being required to repay the associated debt or 32 Table of Contents other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have broad remedies, including rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral or to force our subsidiaries in the project-specific financings to enter bankruptcy proceedings. The impact of bankruptcy could result in the impairment or loss of certain project assets. See Note 16 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The impacts of significant economic downturns (i.e., recession) could lead to decreased volumes delivered and increased expense for uncollectible customer balances. The impacts of significant economic downturns on our retail customers, such as less demand for the products and services provided by our C&I customers, could result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances and related expense. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK and Note 15 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our credit risk. We may be adversely affected by the effects of sustained inflation. An increase in inflation rates could result in higher interest rates and capital costs, increased costs of labor, and other similar effects. If inflation rates rise or become elevated for a sustained period, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Although we may take measures to mitigate the impact of inflation, those measures may not be effective. Long-lived assets, goodwill, and other assets could become impaired. Long-lived assets – principally, generation assets – represent the single largest asset class on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, we expect to have a significant goodwill balance following the acquisition of Calpine in January 2026. In accordance with GAAP, the acquisition of Calpine will be accounted for as a business combination. We expect that the consideration transferred is greater than the fair value of the net assets acquired, and therefore we anticipate recording goodwill on the opening balance sheet. The acquired goodwill will be allocated to the appropriate reporting units of the combined company. We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets to be held and used whenever events or circumstances indicating a potential impairment may exist. Factors such as, but not limited to, the business climate, including current and future energy and market conditions, environmental regulation, and the condition of assets are considered. We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting units below their carrying amount. Changes in significant assumptions, including discount rates, energy prices, projected operating costs, and cash flows could potentially result in future impairments of goodwill. An impairment would require us to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset and goodwill to fair value through a non-cash charge to expense by the amount of the impairment and could have a material adverse impact on our future operating results or financial condition. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Note 1 — Basis of Presentation, Note 8 — Property, Plant, and Equipment, and Note 12 — Intangible Assets of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on long-lived asset impairments. We could incur substantial costs in the event of non-performance by third parties under indemnification agreements. We are exposed to other credit risks in the power markets that are beyond our control. We have entered into various agreements with counterparties that require those counterparties to reimburse us and hold us harmless against specified obligations and claims. To the extent that any of these counterparties are 33 Table of Contents affected by deterioration in their creditworthiness or the agreements are otherwise determined to be unenforceable, we could be held responsible for the obligations. We have issued indemnities to third parties regarding environmental or other matters in connection with purchases and sales of assets, including several of the Exelon utilities in connection with our absorption of their former generating assets. We could incur substantial costs to fulfill our obligations under these indemnities. In the bilateral markets, we are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money or are obligated to purchase energy or fuel from us will not perform under their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we could be forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent amounts, if any, were already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, we are exposed to risk as a result of default sharing mechanisms that exist within certain markets, primarily RTOs and ISOs. We are also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In addition, our retail sales subject us to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities to serve C&I companies, governmental entities, and residential customers. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that could be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customer’s account balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Expiration or termination of our PPAs and other contractual agreements may significantly reduce our revenue and allow the counterparty or customer to seek liquidated damages. A material portion of our portfolio is sold under PPAs that expire at various times. We seek to extend contracts or sell any generation not sold under PPAs on a short-term basis as market opportunities arise. Our non-contracted generation is generally sold on the spot market at current market prices as merchant energy. When the terms of each of our various PPAs expire, it is possible that the price paid to us for generation under subsequent arrangements or in short-term markets may be significantly less than the price paid to us under the PPA. Without the benefit of PPAs, we may not be able to sell any or all of the capacity from these generation facilities at commercially attractive rates, and these generation facilities may not be able to operate profitably. The counterparty or customer may terminate or fail to comply with the terms of our PPAs, construction agreements, commodity contracts, maintenance agreements and other contractual arrangements. Additionally, if we fail to meet our contractual obligations they may seek to enforce the liquidated damages provisions contained in such agreements. Risks Related to Legislative, Regulatory, and Legal Factors Federal or state legislative or regulatory actions could negatively affect the scope and functioning of the wholesale markets. Approximately 70% of our generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long-term contracts, are in the area encompassed by PJM. Our future results of operations are impacted by (1) FERC’s and PJM's level of support for policies that favor the preservation of competitive wholesale power markets, recognize the value of emissions-free electricity and resiliency, complement states' energy objectives and policies and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect us. Market rules in other regions could affect us in a similar fashion. We could also be affected by state laws, regulations or initiatives to subsidize existing or new generation. FERC’s requirements for market-based rate authority could pose a risk that we may no longer satisfy FERC’s tests for market-based rates. A loss of market-based rate authority would mean that we would sell power at cost-based rates. Our business is highly regulated and could be negatively affected by legislative and/or regulatory actions. Substantial aspects of our business are subject to comprehensive federal or state legislation and/or regulation. 34 Table of Contents Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by our sales and purchases of commodities at market-based rates, as opposed to cost-based or other similarly regulated rates. Federal and state regulatory and legislative action designed to limit market-based rates through capacity market mitigation, energy and capacity pricing restrictions, new generation mandates, or other means, may negatively impact our results of operations. Federal or state legislative and regulatory efforts to preserve the environmental attributes and reliability benefits of zero-emission nuclear-powered generating facilities could be subject to legal and regulatory challenges and, if overturned, could result in the early retirement of certain of our nuclear plants. The PTC benefiting existing nuclear plants included in the IRA (starting January 1, 2024) and affirmed by the OBBBA continues to be the subject of additional guidance issued from the U.S. Treasury and IRS, which may negatively impact the amount of benefits we ultimately receive. In addition, the duration of the PTC program, the value of the PTC, and/or the existence of the PTC could be affected by legislative action and may have significant adverse effects on our financial performance depending on the future gross receipts received by our nuclear units. Additionally, Federal Power Act Section 202(c) authorizes the issuance of emergency orders requiring power plants to operate or to mandate temporary electricity connections to prevent grid failure during emergencies such as severe weather, fuel shortages, or sudden demand spikes. The exercise of such authority could have an adverse impact on our results of operations if we are required to operate units when it is not economical. Fundamental changes in regulations or other adverse legislative actions affecting our business would require changes in our business planning models and operations. We cannot predict when or whether legislative and regulatory proposals could become law or what their effect would be. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. NRC actions could negatively affect the operations and profitability of our nuclear generating fleet. Regulatory Risk. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses could require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or could result in increased operating or decommissioning costs. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by us, could cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Spent Nuclear Fuel Storage. Our nuclear operations produce various types of nuclear waste materials, including SNF. The approval of a national repository for the storage of SNF and the timing of that facility opening will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of SNF and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse us for these costs. Any regulatory action relating to the timing and availability of a repository for SNF could adversely affect our ability to decommission fully our nuclear units. We cannot predict whether a fee may be established or to what extent, in the future for SNF disposal. See Note 18 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. We, as a user of the bulk power transmission system, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with or changes in the reliability standards could subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. If we were found in non-compliance with the federal and state mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to remediation costs as well as sanctions, which could include substantial monetary penalties. We could incur substantial costs to fulfill our obligations related to environmental and other matters. We are subject to extensive environmental regulation and legislation by local, state and federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the way we conduct our operations and make capital expenditures, including how we handle air and water emissions, hazardous and solid waste, and activities affecting surface waters, groundwater, and aquatic and other species. Violations of these requirements could subject us to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs for remediation and cleanup 35 Table of Contents costs, civil penalties and exposure to third parties’ claims for alleged health or property damages or operating restrictions to achieve compliance. In addition, we are subject to liability under these laws for the remediation costs for environmental contamination of property currently or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances we generated or released. Also, we are currently involved in several proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and could be subject to additional proceedings in the future. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS – Environmental Matters and Regulation and Note 18 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We could be negatively affected by federal and state RPS and/or energy conservation legislation, along with energy conservation by customers. Changes to current state legislation or the development of federal legislation that requires the use of clean, renewable and alternate fuel sources could significantly impact us. The impact could include reduced use of some of our generating facilities with effects on our operating revenues and costs. Federal and state legislation mandating the implementation of energy conservation programs, GHG emission limitations, and new energy consumption technologies could cause declines in customer energy consumption and lead to a decline in our operating revenues. We could incur costs to further limit the GHG emissions from our operations or otherwise comply with applicable requirements. To the extent such additional regulation or legislation does not become effective, the potential competitive advantage offered by our low-emissions profile may be reduced. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS – Environmental Matters and Regulation – Renewable and Clean Energy Standards and “We may be affected by emerging technologies that could, over time, affect or transform the energy industry” above for additional information. Our financial performance could be negatively affected by risks arising from our ownership and operation of hydroelectric facilities. FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non-federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways, federal lands, or connected to the interstate electrical grid. If FERC does not issue new operating licenses for our hydroelectric facilities in the future or a station cannot be operated through the end of its current operating license, our results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates are currently based on the available license term for each facility. We could also lose operating revenues and incur increased purchased power and fuel expense to meet our supply commitments. In addition, conditions could be imposed as part of the license renewal process that could adversely affect operations, require a substantial increase in capital expenditures, result in increased operating costs or render the project uneconomic. Similar effects could result from a change in the Federal Power Act or the applicable regulations due to events at hydroelectric facilities owned by others, as well as those owned by us. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the license renewal for the Conowingo hydroelectric project. We could be negatively affected by challenges to tax positions taken, tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions. We are required to make judgments in order to estimate our obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use, and employment-related taxes and ongoing appeal issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves established for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that could be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. See Note 1 — Basis of Presentation and Note 13 — Income Taxes of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Following the Calpine acquisition in January 2026, we have several government awards for projects involving cost-share agreements with the DOE, which could be affected by our inadvertent failure to comply with certain laws, rules, and regulations. At five facilities, Calpine has completed or commenced front-end engineering design studies for post-combustion CCUS technology and has also received funding from the DOE for certain geothermal drilling technologies for the Geysers Assets. 36 Table of Contents As a recipient of federal funds under grants and cooperative agreements, in addition to our ordinary contractual obligations, we must comply with various rules and regulations applicable to entities that perform awards in support of government entities. Many of these additional obligations are contained in the terms of the awards themselves and in federal regulations, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of non-procurement federal financial assistance awards, which are subject to change. We must also comply with various national policy requirements prescribed by statute, executive order, policy guidance issued by the Executive Office of the President or other regulations subject to change. Additionally, our contractors must also comply with these federal requirements, and any non-compliance by our contractors or their subcontractors could similarly affect our grant status and expose us to additional risks and liabilities. While we will continue to implement audits and monitor contractual rights for our contractors, failure by our contractors to comply with all regulatory requirements fully could materially affect our business and prospects. Our performance under our U.S. government awards and our compliance with the terms of those awards and applicable laws and regulations are subject to periodic investigation audits, reviews and investigations by various U.S. government agencies. The current environment may lead to increased regulatory scrutiny and sanctions for non-compliance by such agencies. Compliance with these laws and regulations affects how we do business and may impose added costs on our business. Failure to comply may lead to penalties, including whole or partial suspension or termination of our U.S. government awards and/or suspension or debarment from contracting with federal agencies. Legal proceedings could result in a negative outcome, which we cannot predict. We are involved in legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising from our business operations. Our material legal proceedings, claims, and litigation are summarized in Note 3 — Regulatory Matters and Note 18 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could lead to significant expenditures, loss of revenue, or the restriction of existing business activities. We could be subject to adverse publicity and reputational risks, which make us vulnerable to negative customer perception and could lead to increased regulatory oversight or other consequences. We could be the subject of public criticism. Adverse publicity of this nature could render public service commissions and other regulatory and legislative authorities less likely to view energy companies in a favorable light, and could cause those companies, including us, to be susceptible to less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes, as well as increased regulatory oversight and more stringent legislative or regulatory requirements. Risks Related to Operational Factors We are subject to risks associated with weather, including its effect on the supply and demand for electricity, as well as impacts from climate change, including extreme weather events. Our operations are affected by weather, which impacts demand for electricity and natural gas, the price of energy commodities, and operating conditions. Warmer weather in the summer or colder weather in the winter than assumed could require greater resources to meet our contractual commitments. Extreme weather conditions or storms could affect the availability of generation and the transmission of electricity, limiting our ability to source electricity or transmit it to our customers. It could also impair our ability to transport natural gas to our generating assets and regassification facilities as well as our ability to supply natural gas to our customers. Drought-like conditions limiting water usage could impact our ability to run certain generating assets at full capacity. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, could cause us to seek additional replacement supply at a time when supply is constrained. Various forms of power generation and energy-intensive activities, such as data centers, depend on water access to operate. Certain of our assets in the West and Texas Regions, including Calpine's Geysers Assets acquired in January 2026, have experienced drought conditions in the recent past. Disruptions in water 37 Table of Contents availability such as droughts, curtailment, or high prices may impact our ability to generate energy or serve customers, adversely impacting our operations and financial condition. Further, disruptions in water availability at the Geysers Assets may affect the water injection program, steam production and generation levels. Weather projections suggest increases to summer temperature, humidity trends, and more erratic precipitation and storm patterns over the long term in the areas where we have generation assets. The frequency of weather conditions outside the current expected climate norms could contribute to the weather-related impacts discussed above. We primarily operate in areas that have historically been prone to various types of severe weather events. Our physical facilities could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate impact temperature and weather patterns, and result in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, unprecedented levels of precipitation, sea level rise, increased surface water temperatures, and/or other effects. Over time, we may need to make additional investments to protect our facilities from physical climate-related risks. We may be exposed to climate mitigation and transition risks if we are adversely affected by changes to the energy systems as a result of new technologies, changing customer expectations and/or voluntary GHG goals, as well as local, state or federal regulatory requirements intended to reduce GHG emissions. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS – Environmental Matters and Regulation – GHG & Climate Risks for additional information. We are subject to certain risks associated with the operation and maintenance of generation facilities. Operations at any of our generation facilities that we operate as well as those that we own and are operated by others could degrade to the point where the operator must shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes could require significant time and expense. The operator could choose to close a plant rather than incurring the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, we could lose revenue and incur increased purchased power and fuel expense to meet supply commitments. In addition, we depend on facilities and assets that we do not own or control for the transmission to our customers or the distribution to our generation facilities. If these transmission and distribution systems are disrupted or the capacity of those systems is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power products or obtain fuel may be hindered. Our financial performance could be negatively affected by matters arising from our ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors for nuclear generating units significantly affect our results of operations. Lower capacity factors could decrease our revenues and increase operating costs by requiring us to produce additional energy from our natural gas and oil-fueled facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy our supply obligations to committed third-party sales. These sources generally have higher costs to produce energy relative to our nuclear stations. Nuclear refueling outages. In general, refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, could have a significant impact on our results of operations. When refueling outages last longer than anticipated or we experience unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease, and we face lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and/or lower energy sales and higher operating and maintenance costs. Nuclear fuel. In addition to the risks around the cost and availability of nuclear fuel discussed previously, the quality of nuclear fuel we use could affect the efficiency and costs of our operations. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and/or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. We do not procure the fuel for the sites we do not operate. If the operator is unable to procure fuel sufficient to operate the plant or at an uneconomical price, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. 38 Table of Contents Additionally, if we are required to arrange for the safe and permanent disposal of SNF beyond current expectations, this could lead to substantial expense or capital expenditures. See “NRC actions could negatively affect the operations and profitability of our nuclear generating fleet” above for additional information on the storage of SNF. Nuclear major incident risk and insurance. The consequences of a major incident could be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear plant major incident within the United States, owned or operated by us or owned by others, could exceed our resources, including insurance coverage. We are a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and accidental outage insurance for our nuclear operations. Uninsured losses and other expenses, to the extent not recovered from insurers or the nuclear industry, could be borne by us. Additionally, an accident or other significant event at a nuclear plant within the United States or abroad, whether owned by us or others, could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear-fueled energy. As required by the Price-Anderson Act, we carry the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance, $500 million for each operating site. Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue-raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $16.3 billion limit for a single incident. See Note 18 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on nuclear insurance. Decommissioning obligation and funding. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Actual costs to decommission our nuclear facilities may substantially exceed our estimates as a result of changes in the approach and timing of decommissioning activities, changes in decommissioning costs, changes in federal or state regulatory requirements, other changes in our estimates or our ability to effectively execute on planned decommissioning activities. We have recourse to collect additional amounts from utility customers through PECO (subject to certain limitations and thresholds) for former PECO units and through CenterPoint and AEP Texas for STP units. If circumstances changed such that there was an inability to continue to make contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO or STP units based on amounts collected from utility customers, or if we no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from the respective utility customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the adequacy of the trust funds related to these units could be negatively affected. Any changes to the utilities' regulatory agreements could impact our ability to offset decommissioning-related activities for these units within our results of operations, and the impact to our results of operations or financial condition could be material. Should the expected value of the NDT fund for any former ComEd unit fall below the amount of the expected decommissioning obligation for that unit, the accounting to offset decommissioning-related activities for that unit may be temporarily suspended or discontinued, and the decommissioning-related activities would be recognized in our results of operations, the impact of which could be material. Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results could differ significantly from current estimates. If the investments held by our NDT funds are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of our nuclear units, we could be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or making additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that current and future NRC minimum funding requirements are met. See Note 10 — Asset Retirement Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 39 Table of Contents The productivity of Calpine's geothermal resources acquired in January 2026 may be lower than expected, and it is possible that certain of leases for geothermal steam fields may not be renewed or may be renewed at less favorable terms. Geothermal resource productivity can decline unexpectedly, leading to insufficient reserves for sustained power generation at desired power capacity. Mismanagement or inaccurate estimates of steam reserves could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Geothermal steam fields are leased for the Geysers Assets, with most leases lasting 5 to 20 years initially and continuing as long as resources are produced and sold. Many leases are over 30 years old and remain active. Federal leases start at 10 years and can be renewed for up to 50 years. Most other leases continue for the economic life of the assets, with renewal options if resources remain commercially viable. While we expect to renew leases as needed, some may not be renewed or could have less favorable terms. We are subject to evolving physical security, cybersecurity, and third-party reliability risks. Threat actors continue to seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the energy sector associated with protection of sensitive and confidential information, grid infrastructure, and other energy infrastructures. These attacks and disruptions, both physical and cyber, are becoming increasingly sophisticated and dynamic. Security incidents such as ransomware attacks are becoming increasingly prevalent and severe, as well as increasingly difficult to detect. In addition, geopolitical issues, to include conflicts in the Ukraine and the Middle East, as well as tensions between the U.S. and China, may motivate cyber-attacks which could impact the U.S. energy sector and our Company via supply chain disruptions or direct targeting. A security breach, including, but not limited to, physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses, malware, attacks by cyber criminals or nation state threat actors, ransomware attacks, phishing attacks, supply chain attacks, third-party breaches, and other similar breaches of our physical assets or information systems, or those of our competitors, vendors, business partners and interconnected entities in RTOs, ISOs, and other energy markets, or regulators have the potential to disrupt our business and result in harm to the Company. Security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent actions by our employees, third-party service providers or their personnel or other parties. Our customers depend on the continuous availability of our commercial and generation operations. A failure, interruption, or breach of our operational or information security systems, or those of our third-party service providers, as a result of cyber-attacks or information security breaches could disrupt our business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, cause loss of customers or revenue, increase our costs, result in litigation and/or regulatory action, and/or cause other losses, any of which might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial condition or results of operations. Operational harm could be in the form of impact to the generation fleet, our commercial operations, and/or reliability of the bulk power system. Impacts to confidential or proprietary information could include inappropriate release of certain types of information, including critical infrastructure, sensitive customer, vendor and employee, trading, export control or other confidential information. If a significant security breach were to occur, our reputation could be negatively affected, customer confidence in us or others in the industry could be diminished, or we could be subject to legal claims, loss of revenues, increased costs, regulatory penalties, or operational shutdown. We currently utilize a mix of third-party managed service providers to host and support our information technology, customer support, and generation operations. For example, our data centers are hosted in vendor-managed co-location facilities; we also host infrastructure with major cloud service providers and utilize enterprise business systems. Consequently, we may be subject to short- and long-term interruptions, delays and outages in service and availability due to third-party cybersecurity or reliability incidents that are outside of our direct control. In the future we may experience interruptions, delays and outages in service and availability from time to time due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, website hosting disruptions and capacity constraints. Coordinated physical and or cyber-attacks that disrupt multiple key electric or natural gas assets of unaffiliated, interconnected parties (such as parties responsible for real-time planning and management of the bulk power system) could impact our ability to provide generation, potentially resulting in localized and regional blackouts affecting third parties and the public, many of which might have no direct commercial relationship with the Company. 40 Table of Contents We cannot anticipate, detect, repel, or implement fully effective preventative measures against all cyber threats, particularly because the techniques used are constantly evolving. Similarly, we cannot guarantee uninterrupted availability of third-party managed systems that may be affected by factors unrelated to cybersecurity incidents. Our implementation of generative AI to improve business and operational performance has led to the introduction of enhanced technologies that pose distinct governance and security risk management challenges. Continued implementation of advanced digital technologies, including generative AI and machine learning, increases the potentially unfavorable impacts of such attacks and reliability, and may introduce new vulnerabilities and threat tactics. For example, threat actors could use AI to develop malicious code and sophisticated phishing attempts. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. While we have not experienced a material breach or disruption to our network or information systems or our operations to date, future attacks or reliability may negatively impact our business, reputation, or financial results. Although we maintain insurance coverage for cyber events, the amount and scope of insurance maintained against losses resulting from a significant event or security breach may not be sufficient to cover losses or otherwise adequately compensate for any business disruptions that could result. There can be no assurance that such insurance will be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future. In addition, new or updated security regulations or new vulnerabilities identified by security researchers, third-party suppliers, or threat actors could require changes in current measures taken by security or our business operations and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our acquisition of Calpine in January 2026 introduces expanded cybersecurity and physical security risks. As part of the integration, we have and expect to continue to evolve our systems, processes, and technical controls in connection with Calpine's information technology and operational technology. Our acquisition of Calpine and the visibility of the transaction will likely increase attention from potential cyber threat actors, potential insider threats, and opportunistic adversaries. We are continuously evolving our cybersecurity strategy and technical controls to prepare for, identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover our technology systems, information and operations from such attacks. See ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY for more information. The rapid development and integration of AI technologies into our processes presents several risks to our business. The use of AI technologies in our operations presents risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. AI systems, whether developed internally or used by our vendors, service providers or business partners, may produce inaccurate, biased or misleading outputs or experience errors, security vulnerabilities or other failures, which could result in operational disruptions, flawed decision‑making, data loss, cybersecurity incidents or reputational harm. The use of AI may also increase the risk of inadvertent disclosure or misuse of proprietary, confidential or personal information. In addition, the legal and regulatory landscape governing AI technologies is rapidly evolving and uncertain, and compliance with new or changing requirements may impose significant costs or limit our ability to develop, deploy or use AI. If we fail to keep pace with the rapid evolution of AI technologies in our industry and the segments we serve, our competitive position and business results could be negatively impacted. Our employees, contractors, customers and the general public could be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and the general public could be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments near our operations. As a result, employees, contractors and the general public are at some risk for serious injury, including loss of life. These risks include, but are not limited to, nuclear accidents, dam failure, gas explosions, and electric contact cases. Natural disasters, war, acts and threats of terrorism, pandemic and other significant events could negatively impact our results of operations, ability to raise capital, and future growth. Our fleet of power plants and the transmission infrastructure to which they are connected could be affected by natural disasters and extreme weather events, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. Natural disasters and other significant events increase our risk that the NRC or other regulatory or 41 Table of Contents legislative bodies could change the laws or regulations governing, among other things, operations, maintenance, operating licenses, decommissioning, SNF storage, insurance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological matters. In addition, natural disasters could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for our continued operation, particularly the cooling of generating units. Some of Calpine's geothermal, natural gas power plants, and battery storage sites, which were acquired in January 2026 are exposed to frequent minor earthquakes and wildfire risks, mainly in the West. Severe weather and wildfires, especially in California, have disrupted operations and damaged assets like the Geysers Assets. Such events can cause injuries, property damage, and service interruptions, resulting in significant liabilities. Electric utilities may shut down power for public safety reasons during periods of extreme fire hazard. Any shutdown that halts operation at our power plants may reduce our revenues. The impact that potential terrorist attacks could have on the industry and on us is uncertain. We face a risk that our operations would be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign could affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly uranium and oil. Furthermore, these catastrophic events could compromise the physical or cybersecurity of our facilities, which could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors also could result in a decline in energy consumption or interruption of fuel or the supply chain. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. We could be significantly affected by the outbreak of a pandemic. We have plans in place to respond to a pandemic. However, depending on the severity of a pandemic and the resulting impacts to workforce and other resource availability, the ability to operate our generating assets could be adversely affected. We maintain a level of insurance coverage consistent with industry practices against property, casualty, and cybersecurity losses subject to unforeseen occurrences or catastrophic events that could damage or destroy assets or interrupt operations. However, there can be no assurance that the amount of insurance will be adequate to address such property and casualty losses. Furthermore, the scenarios above could result in adverse changes in insurance deductibles, premiums, coverage and/or limits. Our business is capital intensive, and our assets could require significant expenditures to maintain and are subject to operational failure, which could result in potential liability. Our business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in electric generating facilities. The operation of power plants and battery storage facilities involves risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation or storage equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes, performance below expected levels of output or efficiency, and other issues beyond our control that could be costly to remedy. Our results of operations or financial condition could be negatively affected if we were unable to effectively manage our capital projects or raise the necessary capital. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information regarding our potential future capital expenditures. Our performance could be negatively affected if we fail to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce. Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of employees, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, could lead to operating challenges and increased costs for us. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, could arise. We are particularly affected due to the specialized knowledge required of the technical and support employees for generation operations. 42 Table of Contents We could make acquisitions or investments in new business initiatives and new markets, which may not be successful or achieve the intended financial results. We could continue to pursue growth in our existing businesses and markets and seek further diversification across the competitive energy value chain. This could include opportunistic emissions-free energy acquisitions, creating new value from our existing fleet through nuclear uprates, renewable repowerings, development of additional capacity for battery storage, natural gas, and CCUS, co-location of customer load, growing sustainability solutions for our customers, and investment opportunities in other emerging technologies and innovations. Such initiatives could involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, inadequate return on capital, and unidentified issues not discovered during diligence performed prior to launching an initiative or entering a market. Additionally, it is possible that FERC, state public utility commissions, or others could limit our ability to make acquisitions or investments or otherwise impose certain restrictions on such transactions due to market power concerns in certain regions or other factors. All these factors could result in higher costs or lower revenues than expected, resulting in lower than planned returns on investment. We are actively implementing the restart of our Crane nuclear generation facility. The restart is subject to certain regulatory approvals, including the NRC comprehensive safety and environmental review, as well as permits from relevant state and local agencies. Additionally, through separate requests, we will pursue obtaining a renewed license to operate the plant and a FERC interconnection agreement. Failure to obtain the necessary approvals could result in the impairment of amounts capitalized. The restart is a complex undertaking including procuring or restoring specialized components on a critical timeline. Failure to meet contractual timelines could result in significant penalties. Overages in costs, potential interconnection delays, or other unforeseen issues could result in lower than planned returns on the investment. The demand for our generation may be impacted by changes in industry trends, including the demand associated with the developing data economy. Industry trends can significantly impact the demand and market pricing of our generation portfolio. This includes the demand and perceived value of certain attributes of our generation, such as reliability or clean energy, as well as the overall demand for energy in the markets in which we operate. Recently, we have benefited from increased demand for our generation as a result of the developing data economy, including demand driven by data centers and AI and other high-performance computing applications, evidenced by the execution of long-term contracts with technology companies as well as increased interest in prospective contracts from our customers. Demand associated with data centers and AI applications may be subject to technological change, shifts in customer behavior, regulatory developments, or changes in capital investment cycles and may not grow at the pace currently anticipated by the market. Our results of operations, growth opportunities, and the price of our common stock could be adversely impacted if the demand for energy driven by the data economy does not continue or fails to achieve current market expectations. Risks Related to the Acquisition of Calpine We cannot assure that we will continue paying dividends at the current rate. We currently expect to pay dividends in an amount consistent with the dividend policy in effect prior to the completion of the merger. However, there is no assurance that our shareholders will receive the same dividends following the merger for reasons that may include capital spending plans, financing agreements, cash flow or financial condition. Decisions on whether, when, and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of our Board of Directors, which reserves the right to change our dividend practices at any time and for any reason. Our shareholders prior to the merger have a reduced ownership and voting power after the merger, and former Calpine stockholders are not obligated to maintain their ownership interest indefinitely. We issued 50 million newly issued shares of common stock to Calpine stockholders as noted in the Merger Agreement (including shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to Calpine restricted stock units and other 43 Table of Contents equity-based awards). Our prior shareholders and former Calpine stockholders owned approximately 86% and 14% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, respectively, immediately following the consummation of the merger. Each shareholder prior to the merger that remained a shareholder has a percentage ownership of the combined company that is smaller than the shareholder’s percentage held prior to the merger. As a result of this reduced ownership percentage, prior shareholders will have less influence on the policies of the combined company. Additionally, upon the expiration of certain lock-up restrictions on transfers or sales of our securities, former Calpine stockholders will not be subject to any obligation to maintain their ownership interest in us and reducing their ownership interest could adversely impact the price of our common stock. See Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The merger may not be accretive to earnings and may cause dilution to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We currently anticipate that the merger will be accretive to earnings per share in 2026. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates that are subject to change. We may also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs, may fail to realize all the benefits anticipated in the merger, or be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. Any of these factors could negatively impact our operating results or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and contribute to a decrease in the price of our common stock. We have incurred and will incur significant transaction- and merger-related costs, and these costs may be more than anticipated, negatively impacting our operating results. We have incurred and expect to incur non-recurring costs associated with consummation of the transaction. Most of these costs will be transaction-related, including fees paid to financial and legal advisors for the merger and related financing arrangements, and employment-related costs, such as change-in-control payments made to certain Calpine executives. We will also incur transition costs related to formulating integration plans. We may incur additional unanticipated costs in the integration of the businesses, which could negatively impact our operating results. We expect that the elimination of costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will exceed incremental transaction- and merger-related costs over time. We may not realize all the expected benefits of the merger because of integration challenges. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated benefits from integrating Calpine’s business with our existing businesses. The integration process will be complex, costly and time-consuming. Even if achieved, anticipated benefits and efficiencies from the merger may take longer to realize, or require greater costs to achieve, than currently expected. The challenges associated with integrating the operations of Calpine’s business include, among others: • customer retention risk, as well as the inability to finalize certain transactions currently in progress between Calpine and its customers; • delay in implementation of our business plan for the combined business; • unanticipated issues or costs in integrating financial, information technology, communications and other systems; • complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the merger; • integrating relationships with industry contacts and business partners; • possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and compensation structures; and • performance of Calpine’s generating assets and the costs to operate and maintain them, relative to expectations. 44 Table of Contents It is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, which could negatively impact the combined company. Uncertainties associated with the merger may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees, which could adversely affect the future business and operations of the combined company. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our officers and other key employees to execute our business plans. The success of the combined company will depend in part upon our ability to retain key management personnel and other key employees of both companies. Employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles within the combined company following completion of the merger, which may have an adverse effect on our ability to attract or retain key management and other key personnel. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the combined company will be able to attract or retain key management personnel and other key employees to the same extent that we have previously been able to attract or retain our employees. The merger may divert significant attention of our management team, which could detract from efforts to meet business goals. Merger integration efforts could place a burden on management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process may negatively impact our results of operations or financial condition.