{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":460618,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
Item 1. Business CNH Industrial N.V. ("CNH" or the "Company") was formed in 2013 by the business combination transaction between Fiat Industrial S.p.A. and its subsidiary CNH Global N.V.. CNH was incorporated on November 23, 2012, as a public limited liability company ( naamloze vennootschap ) under the laws of the Netherlands. The Company's principal office is at Cranes Farm Road, Basildon, Essex, SS14 3AD, United Kingdom (telephone number: +44-207-9251-964). CNH's agent for U.S. federal securities law purposes is Britton Worthen, c/o CNH Industrial America LLC, 711 Jorie Boulevard, Oak Brook, Illinois 60523 (telephone number +1-331-256-0594). Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, as used in this Annual Report, the term "CNH", "we", "us", "our" or "the Company" refer to CNH Industrial N.V. together with its consolidated subsidiaries. Business Overview General CNH is a leading global equipment company that develops, manufactures and sells agricultural and construction equipment. In addition, CNH's Financial Services segment offers an array of financial products and services, including: • Retail financing for end customers purchasing or leasing new and/or used CNH equipment and/or other manufacturers' products, as well as other retail financing programs. • Wholesale financing to dealers. CNH's global network includes industrial, commercial and financial services subsidiaries located in 32 countries and a commercial presence in approximately 166 countries. We are committed to driving sustainable organic growth by strategically investing in initiatives that expand our market leadership, advance technology integration through our "Iron + Tech" strategy, with a focus on precision agriculture, automation, connectivity, and autonomy and strengthen our commercial presence across global agriculture and construction equipment industries. The key pillars of our organic growth include: • Product and Technology Leadership: By advancing the integration of core industrial capabilities with emerging technologies, we enhance innovation, deliver differentiated solutions, and remain well-positioned to be at the forefront of industry transformation. • Commercial Expansion: We continue to broaden our market reach through targeted sales initiatives, dealer network rationalization, and customer engagement programs. These actions are designed to increase brand visibility, capture new demand in emerging markets, and deepen relationships with existing customers. Together, these pillars support our strategy to drive sustainable, organic growth. By aligning commercial excellence with product and technology leadership, we strengthen our competitive position and deliver consistent value to customers, dealers, employees, and shareholders worldwide. The Company's "Iron + Tech" strategy aims to advance product leadership and technology integration by: • Expanding full line offerings across harvesters, tractors, crop protection, and production equipment. • Internalizing foundational technologies, launching new precision solutions, and leveraging artificial intelligence tools. • Delivering full line leadership through the launch of new generation combines, a complete refresh of the tractor lineup, and equipping all large product lines with factory fit foundational Precision Technology. Through these initiatives, CNH is embedding advanced technologies across its product portfolio to enhance productivity, efficiency, and sustainability for customers in its Agriculture and Construction segments. CNH operates through three business segments: Agriculture, Construction and Financial Services. The Agriculture and Construction segments are collectively referred to as "Industrial Activities." Geographic Regions Certain financial information in this Annual Report is presented by geographic region, which are defined as follows: • North America : United States, Canada and Mexico; 4 • Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") : member countries of the European Union, European Free Trade Association, the United Kingdom, Ukraine and Balkans, Türkiye, Uzbekistan, Pakistan, the African continent and the Middle East; • South America : Central and South America, and the Caribbean Islands; • Asia Pacific : Continental Asia (including the India subcontinent), Indonesia, Japan and Oceania. Certain industry information in this Annual Report has been presented on a worldwide basis which includes all countries. Management estimates of industry information are generally based on retail unit sales data in North America and South America, on registrations of equipment in most of Europe, and various other markets, and on retail and shipment unit data collected by a central information bureau appointed by equipment manufacturers associations, including the Association of Equipment Manufacturers in North America, the Committee for European Construction Equipment in Europe, the Associação Nacional dos Fabricantes de Veículos Automotores in Brazil, the Japan Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association, and the Korea Construction Equipment Manufacturers Association, as well as on other shipment data collected by independent service bureaus. Not all agricultural or construction equipment is registered, and registration data may thus underestimate, perhaps substantially, actual retail industry unit sales demand, particularly for local manufacturers in China, Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, Türkiye, Brazil, and in countries where local shipments are not reported. Business Segments The Agriculture segment develops, manufactures, distributes and supports a full line of agriculture equipment, implements and precision agriculture solutions. The Agriculture segment also supports customers throughout the equipment lifecycle with aftermarket solutions including guidance, automated steering systems, and application control products across a full line of equipment. We seek to ensure that our customers have technology options at every stage of their precision technology adoption journey. Agriculture's product lines include tractors, harvesters, hay and forage equipment, seeding and planting equipment, and self-propelled sprayers. Case IH and New Holland are our two leading global brands. Our regional and technology brands cater to specific regions around the world. They operate closely with customers to provide specialist solutions. Our primary brands and products for the Agriculture segment are as follows: • Case IH specializes in powerful and productive machinery including track technology and precision farming solutions for cash and high-value crops, such as sugarcane and cotton, particularly for larger farms. Products sold through our Case IH brand include tractors, harvesters (grain and sugarcane) and crop protection and tillage precision farming solutions. • New Holland offers a broad range of equipment that caters to a wide range of farmers, with specific solutions for harvesting, specialty applications, hay and forage, livestock, vineyards and orchards, as well as methane power solutions. Products sold through our New Holland brand include tractors, harvesters (grain and specialty crops such as grapes and olives), hay and forage equipment, crop protection and tillage solutions (primarily for small grains) and precision farming solutions. • STEYR is a regional brand, sold primarily in European markets, that specializes in small- to mid-sized tractors for the agricultural, municipal and forestry segments. • Raven is a global technology brand primarily focused on developing disruptive agricultural technologies that seek to solve in-field challenges and provide automated and autonomous farming solutions. New and emerging technologies are transforming the industries we serve. We are investing in integrated solutions and precision technologies across its equipment portfolio, including digital platforms, global navigation satellite system ("GNSS") positioning, connectivity, displays, automation, and autonomy. Our core technology capabilities have been strengthened through strategic acquisitions. In 2021, we acquired Raven Industries, Inc., ("Raven") enhancing our precision agriculture and automation expertise. In 2023, we acquired Hemisphere GNSS ("Hemisphere"), enabling us to design, manufacture, sell, and service precise GNSS solutions for agriculture and construction. In 2023, we acquired Augmenta Holding SAS ("Augmenta"), a machine vision company that automates and optimizes farming operations using real-time, multi-spectral sensors and agronomic insights. The Construction segment develops, manufactures, distributes and supports a full line of construction equipment including excavators, crawler dozers, graders, wheel loaders, backhoe loaders, skid steer loaders, and compact track loaders, along with a wide variety of attachments. The Construction segment also supports customers throughout the equipment lifecycle with aftermarket solutions that enhance productivity and equipment performance across the full 5 product line. We seek to ensure that our customers have technology options at every stage of their precision technology adoption journey. Construction's product lines are sold primarily under the global CASE Construction Equipment ("CASE") and New Holland Construction brands, and include a range of heavy and light construction equipment. Heavy construction equipment product lines include general construction equipment such as large excavators and wheel loaders, and road building and site preparation equipment such as compactors, graders and dozers. Light construction equipment is also known as compact and service equipment, and its product lines include backhoe loaders, skid steer and tracked loaders, mini and midi excavators, and compact wheel loaders. Our primary products and brands for the Construction segment are as follows: • New Holland Construction is a global brand that offers a wide range of equipment for farming, landscaping, and construction appliances. Products sold through our New Holland Construction brand include skid steer loaders, compact track and wheel loaders, mini track loaders and excavators, loader backhoes, tractor loaders, small articulated loaders, forklifts and specialized attachments. • Case Construction is a global brand that designs and builds powerful construction equipment designed to meet the needs of the construction industry. Products sold through our Case Construction brand include mini and heavy excavators, motor graders, wheel and tractor loaders, vibratory compaction rollers, compact dozers and track loaders, crawler dozers, skid steer and mini track loaders, compact track loaders, rough terrain forklifts, electrical vehicle ("EV") options and specialized attachments. • Eurocomach is a regional brand that sells products in more than 40 countries and focuses on compact equipment for construction and related applications. Products sold through our Eurocomach brand include mini and midi excavators, compact track and wheel loaders, MTL50 track loaders for small and confined spaces and specialized attachments. In 2021, we completed the acquisition of Sampierana S.p.A., which provides us direct control over technology and manufacturing of mini and midi excavators. This acquisition strengthened our vertical integration in compact equipment and enhanced our ability to deliver innovative solutions to customers. In 2023, we developed and launched our first range of mini track loaders under our Eurocomach brand, further expanding our product portfolio and reinforcing our commitment to innovation and customer needs. Construction's products often share common components to achieve economies of scale in manufacturing, purchasing, and development. Construction differentiates these products based on the relative product value, technology, design concept, productivity, product serviceability, color, and styling to preserve the unique identity of each brand. Our construction products are also sold by our Agriculture dealers for certain uses. Sales to agriculture customers are still accounted for in the Construction segment, given the nature of the products. We began production and distribution of full-electric compact construction equipment in 2023. This includes electric mini excavators, compact wheel loaders, tractor loader backhoes and small articulated loaders. We plan to continue delivering further battery-powered compact construction equipment solutions to help our customers operate in enclosed and municipal job sites calling for no, or reduced, tailpipe emissions. The Financial Services segment provides and administers financing to end-use customers for the purchase of new and used agricultural and construction equipment and components sold through CNH's dealer network, as well as revolving charge account financing and other financial services. Financial Services also provides wholesale financing to CNH dealers and distributors primarily to finance inventories of equipment. Furthermore, Financial Services provides trade receivables factoring services to CNH subsidiaries. The European Financial Services operations are supported by the Iveco Group's Financial Services segment. Financial Services also provides financial products and services to dealers and end customers of Iveco Group companies in the North America, South America and Asia Pacific regions. The segment is referred to commercially as CNH Capital - the captive financial provider for the CNH family of brands, specializing in agricultural and construction equipment. In Brazil, it operates under the brand of Banco CNH. Industry Overview The agricultural and construction equipment industries are undergoing significant transformation driven by technological innovation. Emerging technologies are reshaping operational efficiency, sustainability, and competitiveness across the sector. Advances in precision agriculture, autonomous equipment, robotics, connectivity, and renewable energy integration are increasingly influencing product development and customer adoption. These advancements are enabling greater productivity, reduced environmental impact, and enhanced data-driven decision making for customers. At the same time, they are accelerating the industry’s transition toward more sustainable practices and diversified energy solutions. CNH is actively investing in these areas to strengthen its portfolio, expand digital capabilities, and support customers in achieving higher returns on their operations. 6 As innovation continues to reshape the industry landscape, companies that successfully integrate advanced technologies into their equipment and services are expected to gain competitive advantage and capture new growth opportunities. Agriculture The agricultural machinery industry is generally segmented into farm types, including row crop, dairy and livestock operations. Row crop farmers, including cash‑crop producers, typically purchase tractors at the mid-to-upper end of the horsepower ("hp") range, as well as combine harvesters, harvesting equipment and crop production equipment. Dairy and livestock farmers typically buy and utilize tractors in the mid-to-lower hp range, along with crop preparation and crop packaging implements. The key factors influencing sales of agricultural equipment include the level of net farm income, the impact of government subsidy programs, and weather and climate conditions. Net farm income is primarily affected by commodity and/or livestock prices, changes in acreage planted, stock levels, crop yields, farm operating expenses (including fuel and fertilizer costs), fluctuations in currency exchange rates, government subsidies, tax incentives and trade policies. Inventory levels and the value of used equipment also affect the level of new equipment sales. Cash-crop producers are also very interested in equipment technology and automation innovations, which drive better yields and reduce dependence on increasingly scarce skilled labor. Demand for agricultural equipment also varies seasonally by region and product, primarily due to differing climates and farming calendars. Peak retail deliveries for tractors and planting, seeding, and application equipment typically occur in March through June in the Northern hemisphere and in September through December in the Southern hemisphere. Dealers order equipment year-round trying to anticipate the peak in the retail season and use inventory to offer standard products to customers who do not require specific configurations. The Company seeks to match retail and dealer orders with lean production plans using the Company's inventory to offset low and high seasonality, while targeting shorter time intervals between retail order and production to promote efficient working capital-management and excellent customer service. Government farm programs, including the amount and timing of government payments, are a key income driver for farmers raising certain commodity crops in the United States ("U.S.") and the European Union. The existence of comprehensive subsidies in these agricultural/farm markets reduces the effects of cyclicality in the agricultural equipment business. The existence and extent of subsidies depends largely on the U.S. Farm Bill and programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union and World Trade Organization negotiations. Additionally, the Brazilian government subsidizes the purchase of agricultural equipment through low-rate financing programs administered by the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social ("BNDES"). These programs have had over the years a significant influence on sales. The demand for biofuels has created an associated demand for agriculturally based feedstocks, which are used to produce biofuels. Currently, most of the ethanol in the U.S. and Europe is extracted from corn, while in Brazil it is primarily extracted from sugar cane and increasingly from corn. Biodiesel is typically extracted from soybeans and rapeseed oil in the U.S. and Brazil, and from rapeseed and other oil seeds as well as food waste by-products in Europe. The use of corn and soybeans for biofuel has been one of the main factors affecting the supply and demand relationships, as well as the price for these crops. The economic feasibility of biofuels is significantly impacted by the price of oil. As the price of oil falls, biofuels become a less attractive alternative energy source. This relationship will, however, be impacted by government policy and mandates as governments around the world consider ways to combat global warming and avoid potential energy resource issues in the future. With the use of a bio-digester, animal and food waste can be processed to produce biomethane. CNH has developed a methane-powered tractor under its New Holland brand that can also run on methane produced on the farm from animal and food waste. CNH has a controlling stake in Bennamann Ltd ("Bennamann"), a United Kingdom ("U.K.") based technology company, that is developing a solution to capture fugitive emissions of methane from livestock farm waste and convert them into better-than-zero-carbon biofuel. The developments in precision technology and solutions are designed to help farmers increase yields while reducing input costs in labor, fertilizer, chemicals and water. As a result, precision agriculture technology is expected to drive replacement demand for new farm equipment, as these technologies reduce the time and effort required for individual tasks and improve overall farm efficiency. While the agricultural equipment industry is currently experiencing a cyclical downturn, particularly in large agriculture in the Americas, we continue to view long‑term fundamentals as attractive, supported by global protein demand, finite arable land, and increasing adoption of precision technologies. Our investment priorities and product roadmap are designed to position CNH to benefit as industry conditions normalize. 7 Construction The construction equipment market consists of two principal segments: heavy construction equipment (excluding the mining and the specialized forestry equipment markets, in which we do not participate), with equipment generally weighing more than 12 metric tons, and light construction equipment, with equipment generally weighing less than 12 metric tons. In developed markets, customers tend to prefer more sophisticated machines equipped with the latest technology, such as machine control, automation and features to improve operator productivity. In developing markets, customers tend to prefer equipment that is relatively less costly and has greater perceived durability. In North America and Europe, where the hourly cost of machine operators is higher relative to fuel costs and machine depreciation, customers typically emphasize productivity, performance, and reliability. In other markets, where the relative cost for machine operators is lower, customers often continue to use equipment after its relative performance and efficiency have begun to diminish. Customer demand for power and operating capacity does not vary significantly from market to market. However, in many countries, restrictions on equipment weight or dimensions, as well as road regulations or job site constraints can limit demand for larger machines. Although the demand for new construction equipment tends to decrease during periods of economic stagnation or recession, the after-sales market is historically less volatile than the new equipment market and, therefore, helps limit the impact of declines in new equipment sales on the operating results of full-line manufacturers. Heavy Construction Heavy construction equipment typically includes general construction equipment such as large wheel loaders and excavators, and road building and site preparation equipment such as graders, compactors and dozers. Purchasers of heavy construction equipment include construction companies, municipalities, local governments, rental fleet owners, quarrying and mining companies, waste management companies and forestry-related concerns. Sales of heavy construction equipment primarily depend on the expected volume of major infrastructure construction and repair projects such as highway, tunnel, dam and harbor projects, which depend on government spending and economic growth. In North America, a portion of heavy equipment demand has historically been linked to the development of new housing subdivisions, where the entire infrastructure needs to be created, thus linking demand for both heavy and light construction equipment. The heavy equipment industry generally follows macroeconomic cyclicality, linked to growth in gross domestic product and government spending. Light Construction Light construction equipment is also known as compact and service equipment, and it includes skid-steer loaders, compact track loaders, tractor loaders, rough terrain forklifts, backhoe loaders, small wheel loaders and excavators. Purchasers of light construction equipment include contractors, residential builders, utilities, road construction companies, rental fleet owners, landscapers, logistics companies, and farmers. The principal factor influencing sales of light construction equipment is the level of residential and commercial construction, remodeling and renovation, which is influenced by interest rates and the availability of financing. Other major factors include the construction of light infrastructure, such as utilities, cabling and piping and maintenance expenditures. The principal use of light construction equipment is to replace relatively high-cost, slower manual work. Product demand in the United States and Europe has generally tended to mirror housing starts, with lags of six to twelve months. In areas where labor is abundant, and the cost of labor is inexpensive relative to other inputs—such as in India, Africa and South America—the light construction equipment market is generally smaller. These regions represent potential areas of growth for light construction equipment in the medium to long-term as labor costs rise relative to the cost of equipment or the supply of labor contracts, leading to increased mechanization. Equipment rental is a significant element of the construction equipment market. Compared to the U.K. and Japan, where there is an established market for long-term equipment rentals as a result of favorable tax treatment, the rental market in North America and Western Europe (except for the U.K.) consists mainly of short-term rentals of light construction equipment to individuals or small contractors for which the purchase of equipment is not cost effective or that need specialized equipment for specific jobs. In North America, the main rental product has traditionally been the backhoe loader, and, in Western Europe, it has been the mini-excavator. As the market has evolved, a greater variety of light and heavy equipment products have become available for rent. In addition, rental companies have allowed contractors to rent machines for longer periods instead of purchasing the equipment, enabling contractors to complete specific job requirements with greater flexibility and cost control. Large, national rental companies can significantly impact the construction equipment market, with purchase volumes being driven by their decisions to increase or decrease the size of their rental fleets based on rental utilization rates. 8 Seasonal demand for construction equipment fluctuates somewhat less than for agricultural equipment. Nevertheless, in North America and Western Europe, housing construction generally slows during the winter months. North American and European industry retail demand for construction equipment is generally strongest in the second and fourth quarters. Agricultural and landscaping customers also contribute to a significant portion of the North America light equipment market. In this segment the main applications are related to material handling. In markets outside of North America, Western Europe and Japan, equipment demand may also be partially satisfied by importing used equipment. Used heavy construction equipment from North America may fulfill demand in the South American market and equipment from Western Europe may be sold to Central and Eastern European, North African and Middle Eastern markets. Used heavy and light equipment from Japan is mostly sold to other Southeast Asian markets, while used excavators from Japan are sold to almost every other market in the world. This flow of used equipment is highly influenced by exchange rates, the weight and dimensions of the equipment and the different local regulations in terms of safety and engine emissions. The construction equipment industry has seen an increase in the use of hydraulic excavators and wheel loaders in earth-moving and material handling applications. In addition, the light equipment sector has grown as more manual labor is being replaced on construction sites by machines with a variety of attachments for specialized applications, such as skid steer loaders, compact track loaders and mini-crawler excavators. Industrial Activities Competition The agriculture and construction equipment industries are highly competitive at both global and regional levels. We compete with: (i) large global full-line equipment manufacturers with a presence in every market and a broad range of products that cover most customer needs, (ii) manufacturers who are product specialists focused on particular industry segments on either a global or regional basis, (iii) regional full-line manufacturers, some of which are expanding worldwide to build a global presence, and (iv) local, low-cost manufacturers in individual markets, particularly in emerging markets such as Eastern Europe, India and China. Competitive dynamics are driven by cyclical demand, technological change, regulatory requirements, and evolving customer expectations. Key competitive factors include: • Product Performance and Reliability: Productivity, durability, fuel efficiency, uptime, and adaptability to precision technologies. • Innovation and Quality: Investment in research and development to deliver new features, digital solutions, and sustainable technologies, supported by high manufacturing standards, safety, and environmental compliance. • Distribution and Dealer Network Strength: Broad and effective dealer and service networks that ensure coverage, delivery, and customer accessibility. • Customer Service and Support: After‑sales service, parts availability, financing, and technical support to minimize downtime and enhance productivity. • Pricing and Cost Competitiveness: Balancing premium positioning with competitive pricing, particularly in emerging markets and during downturns. Compliance with evolving engine emissions standards is a critical competitive factor, particularly in regions subject to frequent regulatory change such as Europe and North America. New legislation in India and China has also further increased product costs and intensified global competition. Competitive positioning is increasingly influenced by technology integration, sustainability initiatives, and regulatory compliance. Long‑term industry leadership depends on the integration of advanced technologies—including autonomous solutions, connected equipment, and precision agriculture tools—while maintaining compliance with stringent emissions and safety standards. Our principal competitors in the agricultural equipment market are Deere & Company, AGCO Corporation, Claas Group, Kubota Tractor Corporation, Argo Tractors S.p.A., Same Deutz Fahr Group and Mahindra. Our principal competitors in the construction equipment market are Caterpillar Inc., Komatsu Ltd., J C Bamford Excavators Ltd., Hitachi Construction Machinery Co, Ltd., Volvo Group, Liebherr Group, Develon, Bobcat, Kubota Tractor Corporation, SANY Heavy Industry Co., Ltd and Deere & Company. Sales and Distribution CNH is advancing its commercial excellence strategy by strengthening its dual-branded dealer network and enhancing 9 customer service capabilities. Our integrated and regionally tailored dealer network and brand strategy are designed to improve market coverage, align with local customer needs, and reinforce the distinct value propositions of our Case IH and New Holland brands. We predominantly sell and distribute our Agriculture and Construction products through dealers. The Agriculture dealer network includes more than 2,300 dealer owners operating over 5,000 locations/points of sale. Construction products are sold through approximately 400 full-line dealers and distributors with approximately 1,700 points of sale. Agriculture and Construction dealers are almost all independently owned and operated. Some Agriculture dealers also sell construction equipment. Our dealers are responsible for retail sales of equipment to end users and after-sales service and support. In the United States, Canada, most of Western Europe, Brazil, Argentina, India, China, Thailand, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa products are generally distributed directly through the independent dealer network. In the rest of the world, products are either sold to independent distributors who then resell to dealers, or to importers who sell products to retail customers. In Turkey, Japan, Mexico and Pakistan, we also distribute our products through our joint ventures. As the equipment rental business becomes a more significant factor in both the agricultural and construction equipment markets, Agriculture and Construction are facilitating sales of equipment to the local, regional and national rental companies through their dealers as well as by encouraging dealers to develop their own rental activities. Agriculture and Construction have launched several programs to support their dealer service and rental operations, including training, improved dealer standards, financing, and advertising. As the rental market is a capital-intensive sector and sensitive to cyclical variations, we expand such activities gradually, with special attention to supporting the resale of rental units into the used equipment market by our dealers, who can utilize this opportunity to improve their customer base and generate additional parts and service business. Although we believe that it is generally more cost-effective to distribute our agricultural and construction equipment products through independent dealers, as of December 31, 2025, we operate a network of owned dealers for Case IH and the Construction segment in South Africa following the acquisition of our former distributor in that country. We also promote a selective dealer development program in territories with growth potential but underdeveloped representation of our brands. This program typically involves a transfer of ownership to a qualified operator through a buy-out or private investment after a few years. Precision technology is integrated with our Agriculture equipment as well as offered as aftermarket parts for retrofit solutions through our dealer network. Raven-branded products are distributed through the CNH dealer network in all regions and through independent dealer/distributor networks, some of which are affiliated with strategic and industry partners. Raven products and services are also sold to third-party companies for inclusion in their respective equipment. Pricing and Promotion We sell most of our products and parts to our dealers and distributors at wholesale prices that reflect a discount from the manufacturer-suggested list prices. In the ordinary course of business, we engage in promotional campaigns that may include price incentives or preferential financing terms when a product is sold by a dealer to end-use customers. Such price incentives are generally accrued when we originally sell our products to dealers and distributors, and it is then disbursed at the time of the retail sale. The retail transaction price of any piece of equipment is determined by the individual dealer or distributor and generally depends on market conditions, features, options and, potentially, regulatory requirements. Retail transaction prices may differ from the manufacturer-suggested list prices, as a result of different factors (markets' demand, customer-specific requirements, local market conditions, general economic conditions, access to financing, etc.). We regularly advertise our products to the community of farmers, builders, and agricultural and construction contractors, as well as to distributors and dealers in each of our major markets. To reach our target audience, we use a combination of general media, specialized trade magazines, the Internet, social media and direct mail. We also regularly participate in major international and national trade shows and engage in co-operative advertising programs with distributors and dealers. The promotion strategy for each brand varies according to the target customers for that brand. Parts and Services The quality and timely availability of parts and services are important competitive factors for each of our businesses, as they are significant elements of overall customer satisfaction and important considerations in a customer's original equipment purchase decision. We supply parts, many of which are proprietary, to support items in the current product lines as well as for products we have sold in the past. We also offer personalized aftersales customer assistance programs that provide a wide range of modular and flexible maintenance and repair contracts, as well as warranty extension services, to meet a variety of customer needs and to support the equipment's value over time. Many of our products can have economically productive lives of more than 20 years when properly maintained, and each unit has the potential to produce a long-term parts and services revenue stream for us and our dealers. To further support the 10 productive life of the equipment, connected technology within our machines has allowed us, together with our cloud-based control rooms and our dealer service shops, to obtain results through analytics blended with the professional knowledge of our products experts. We are increasing the number of connected units proactively supported by control rooms that leverage service alarms, operator insights, and predictive repairs and maintenance, enriching a suite of machine and farm data. As of December 31, 2025, we operated and administered 30 parts depots worldwide which support both Agriculture and Construction, either directly, through a joint venture, or through arrangements with warehouse service providers. This network includes eight parts depots in North America, twelve in EMEA, two in South America, and eight in other regions. Manufacturing The efficiency of our manufacturing, logistics, and scheduling systems is dependent on forecasts of industry volumes and our anticipated share of industry sales, which is predicated on our ability to compete successfully with others in the marketplace. We compete based on product performance, customer service, quality, precision technology and other innovations and prices. The environment is by nature competitive from a pricing standpoint, but we have been able to mitigate inflationary cost increases with positive price realization. There is no guarantee that we can maintain positive price realization in the future. The ability of our supply chain and manufacturing system to timely deliver finished goods is also critical to meeting customer expectations. Failure to do so might imply losses of competitiveness. We pursue continuous improvements in manufacturing processes, supply chain management, and resource allocation to reduce costs, improve productivity, and respond more effectively to market fluctuations. A focus on quality is embedded across our operating philosophy. We pursue rigorous standards in product design, engineering, and after-sales service in order to reinforce customer trust, reduce warranty risks, and support long-term product reliability. Suppliers We purchase certain materials, parts, components and services from third party suppliers. We view our supplier relationships as critical to our operational effectiveness. Certain components and parts used in our products are available from a single supplier and cannot be sourced quickly otherwise. The sudden or unexpected interruption in the availability of certain of our suppliers' raw materials, parts, and components could result in delays in, or increases in the costs of production. We seek to mitigate these risks by strengthening our supply chain resiliency through diversification, inventory management, contingency planning, and continuous monitoring of supplier performance and stability. We assess a broad range of potential exposures, including financial viability, capacity, continuity, labor, quality, delivery, cybersecurity, and weather‑related events. To address disruptions, we employ measures such as prioritizing material allocations, multi‑sourcing, securing long‑term supply agreements, and utilizing alternative logistics solutions in an effort to maintain continuity of operations. We are continuing our multi-year supply chain transformation through the Strategic Sourcing Program ("SSP") initiated in 2023. The SSP is designed to leverage our long-term relationships with our current suppliers and support the establishment of long-term relationships with new suppliers to capture the best total value across the supply chain and to foster co-development and co-innovation initiatives. Research and Development ("R&D") and Intellectual Properties In a continuously and rapidly changing competitive environment, our R&D activities are a strategic component of our growth and long-term progress, focused on accelerating time-to-market and leveraging specialized expertise in different markets. We hold approximately 11,000 registered patents in addition to trade secrets, licenses and trademarks related to our products and services. We file patent applications in Europe, the U.S. and in other jurisdictions around the world to protect technology and improvements considered important to the business. Certain trademarks contribute to our identity and the recognition of our products and services and are an integral part of our business, and their loss could have a material adverse effect on us. We are making targeted investments to develop equipment that enhances farmer productivity and profitability. These investments include precision agriculture technologies, autonomous and connected solutions, and sustainable equipment platforms designed to reduce input costs and improve efficiency. By aligning our R&D priorities with customer demands and regulatory requirements, we aim to deliver differentiated products that support long‑term leadership in the agriculture and construction equipment industries. 11 Joint Ventures As part of a strategy to enter and expand in new markets, we are also involved in several commercial and/or manufacturing joint ventures. On December 31, 2025, these are the following: ◦ in Türkiye, we own 37.5% of TürkTraktör ve Ziraat Makineleri A.S., which manufactures and distributes various models of both New Holland and Case IH tractors; ◦ in Japan, we own 50% of New Holland HFT Japan Inc. ("HFT"), which distributes our products in Japan. HFT imports and sells the full range of New Holland agricultural equipment; ◦ in Mexico, we own 50% of CNH de Mexico S.A. de C.V.,which manufactures New Holland agricultural equipment and distributes our agricultural equipment through one or more of its wholly-owned subsidiaries; ◦ in Pakistan, we own 43.2% of Al Ghazi Tractors Ltd., which manufactures and distributes New Holland tractors. Financial Services Financial Services offers a range of financial products and services to dealers and customers in the various regions in which it operates. Retail financing products primarily include retail notes, finance leases and operating leases to end use customers and revolving charge account financing to purchase parts, service, rentals, implements and attachments from CNH dealers. Wholesale financing consists primarily of dealer floorplan financing as well as the management and purchase of trade receivables from CNH subsidiaries. Dealer floorplan financing gives dealers the ability to maintain a representative inventory of products. In addition, Financial Services provides financing to dealers for used equipment and machines taken in trade, equipment utilized in dealer-owned rental yards, parts inventory, working capital and other financing needs. As a captive finance business, Financial Services is reliant on and supports the operations of Agriculture and Construction, their dealers, and customers, and plays an important stabilizing role through industry cycles by supporting retail demand, dealer inventories, and adoption of new precision and connected technologies. Financial Services supports the growth of Industrial Activities by developing and structuring financial products with the objective of supporting equipment and parts sales as well as customer loyalty. Financial Services' strategy is to grow a core financing business to support the sale of our equipment and parts while at the same time maintaining its portfolio credit quality, service levels, operational effectiveness and customer satisfaction. Financial Services also offers products to finance third party equipment and machines sold through our dealer network or within our core businesses. Financed third party equipment includes used equipment taken in trade by our dealers or equipment used in conjunction with or attached to our products. In North America, retail customer and dealer financing activities, which support the sales of Agriculture and Construction, are managed through our wholly-owned financial services subsidiaries under the name of CNH Capital. In EMEA, retail customer financing for Agriculture and Construction equipment is primarily provided through CNH Industrial Capital Europe S.a.S. This entity is majority owned by BNP Paribas, and 24.95% owned by CNH Industrial N.V. through its joint venture CIFINS S.p.A.. Additionally, there are vendor programs with banking partners that provide customer financing to our industrial segments in certain countries. In Europe, companies within Iveco Group's Financial Services segment manage and service CNH dealer financing receivables that are funded through a dedicated securitization. CNH Industrial Capital Solutions S.p.A. retains the securitization program's junior notes and therefore retains substantially all of the risks and benefits of the underlying wholesale receivables. For South America, retail customer and dealer financing activities are managed through our wholly-owned financial services subsidiary which supports the sales of Agriculture and Construction. For retail customer financing in Brazil, Banco CNH Industrial Capital S.A. also serves as a lender for funding provided by BNDES, a federally-owned financial institution linked to the Brazilian Ministry of Development, Industry and Foreign Trade. In Argentina, vendor programs with banking partners are also utilized. CNH Financial Services serves as a lender for Iveco Group dealers and end customers in the region and assumes the credit risk associated with those financing arrangements. In Asia Pacific, CNH Financial Services supports the sales of Agriculture and Construction by providing retail customer and dealer financing activities in Australia, New Zealand and India, managed through wholly-owned financial services companies. In China, Agriculture dealer financing activities are provided by and managed through a wholly-owned financial services company. CNH Financial Services serves as a lender for Iveco Group dealers and end customers in Australia and New Zealand and assumes the credit risk associated with those financing arrangements. Customer Financing Financial Services has certain retail underwriting and portfolio management policies and procedures that are specific to Agriculture or Construction. This distinction allows Financial Services to reduce credit risk by deploying industry-specific 12 expertise in each of these businesses. We provide retail financial products primarily through our dealers, who are trained in the use of the various financial products. Dedicated credit analysis teams perform retail credit underwriting. The terms for financing equipment retail sales typically provide for retention of a security interest in the equipment financed. Financial Services' guidelines for minimum down payments for equipment generally range from 5% to 30% of the actual sales price, depending on equipment types, repayment terms, and customer credit quality. Finance charges are sometimes waived for specified periods or reduced on certain equipment sold or leased in advance of the season of use or in connection with other sales promotions. For periods during which finance charges are waived or reduced on the retail notes or leases, Financial Services generally receives compensation from the applicable Industrial Activities segment based on Financial Services' estimated costs and a targeted return on equity. The cost is recognized as a reduction in "Net sales" for the applicable Industrial Activities segment. Dealer Financing Financial Services provides dealer floorplan financing, and to a lesser extent, the financing of dealer operations. Under the standard terms of the wholesale receivable agreements, these receivables typically have a fixed period of "interest-free" financing to dealers. During the "interest-free" period, the applicable Industrial Activities segment compensates Financial Services based on Financial Services' estimated costs and a targeted return on equity. The cost is recognized as a reduction in "Net sales" for the applicable Industrial Activities segment. After the expiration of any "interest-free" period, interest is charged to dealers on outstanding balances until Financial Services receives payment in full. A wholesale underwriting group reviews dealer financial information and payment performance to establish credit lines for each dealer. In setting these credit lines, Financial Services seeks to meet the reasonable requirements of each dealer while managing its own exposure to any one dealer. All risks are underwritten and supported by Financial Services. The credit lines are secured by the equipment financed. Dealer credit agreements generally include a requirement to repay individual receivables at the time of the retail sale of the related unit. Financial Services leverages employees, third‑party contractors, and digital technologies like "geo-fencing" to conduct periodic stock audits at individual dealerships to confirm that the financed equipment is maintained in inventory. These audits are unannounced, and their frequency varies by dealer and depends on the dealer's financial strength, payment history, and prior performance. Factoring Financial Services also provides intragroup factoring of trade and other receivables. This activity involves the purchase, without recourse, of receivables of CNH subsidiaries, originating from the Industrial Activities segments, and due from third or related parties. Sources of Funding The long-term profitability of Financial Services' activities largely depends on the cyclical nature of the industries in which we operate, the credit quality of customers, interest rate volatility, and the ability to access funding on competitive terms. Financial Services funds its operations and lending activity through a combination of term receivable securitizations, committed secured and unsecured facilities, uncommitted lines of credit, unsecured bonds, unsecured commercial paper, affiliated financing, and retained earnings. Financial Services' current funding strategy is to maintain sufficient liquidity and flexible access to a wide variety of financial instruments and funding options. Financial Services has periodically accessed the asset-backed securities ("ABS") markets in the United States, Canada, and Australia, as part of its retail note and wholesale financing programs when those markets offer funding opportunities on competitive terms. Financial Services has also accessed the unsecured bond market in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Argentina and Australia and commercial paper markets in the United States to diversify its funding sources. Financial Services' ability to access these markets will depend, in part, upon general economic conditions and Financial Services' financial condition and portfolio performance. These factors can be negatively affected by cyclical swings in the industries in which we operate. Competition The financial services industry is highly competitive. Financial Services competes primarily with banks, equipment finance and leasing companies and other financial institutions. Typically, this competition is based upon the financial products and services offered, customer service, financial terms, and interest rates charged. Financial Services' ability to compete successfully depends upon, among other things, the availability and competitiveness of funding resources, the development of competitive financial products and services, and licensing or other governmental regulations. 13 Global Human Capital All CNH employees contribute to the Company's performance in diverse ways, each playing a key role in achieving our business objectives. The conviction that people are the company's greatest asset is the baseline principle of our Human Capital Management Guidelines which aim to increase organizational effectiveness. The Company has identified five key core beliefs that have been cascaded to the entire organization: Customer First, One Team, Grow Together, Make it Simple, and Be the Best. Specific tools (recognition, story-telling and feedback) are used to reinforce these behaviors and are embedded in the Company's Performance & Talent Management processes. We strongly believe that sharing a common culture will help attract, develop and retain talent, ultimately allowing the Company to be more competitive. Our focus on quality, safety, and customer advocacy is embedded in these behaviors and underpins our operational initiatives to reduce the cost of non‑quality and improve customer satisfaction over time. Employees The ability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees is crucial to the success of the Company and its ability to create long-term value. The Company's business is labor intensive by nature, which is reflected in the high number of hourly employees. As of December 31, 2025, CNH had 34,197 employees including 9,129 employees in the U.S. and Canada. CNH also engages consultants, independent contractors, and temporary and part-time workers. Approximately 400 hourly manufacturing employees in the United States are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America, which expires on May 2, 2026. Additionally, approximately 500 U.S. manufacturing employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the International Association of Machinists, which expires on April 30, 2028. In Canada, a small number of employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers Local Union No. 5917, which expires on April 15, 2026, and negotiations for a new collective agreement are underway. In Europe, most employees are covered by collective labor agreements ("CLAs") stipulated either by a CNH subsidiary or by the employer association for the specific industry to which the CNH subsidiary belongs in the given country. Outside North America and Europe, CNH enters into employment contracts and agreements in countries where such relationships are mandatory or customary. Refer to Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for a discussion of the risks associated with our employment relationships. Employee Engagement The Global Leadership Team has reaffirmed the Company's commitment to rejecting any forms of discrimination and fostering an environment in which every individual has equal opportunities for professional growth based on their skills and abilities. Code of Conduct CNH's Code of Conduct (the "Code") is one of the pillars of the Company's corporate governance system, which regulates the decision-making process, and guides how the Company and its employees interact with each other and with all stakeholders. The Code summarizes the values the Company recognizes, adheres to, and promotes, and provides specific guidance to employees on conducting their work with integrity and in alignment with those values. CNH requires all employees to complete training on the Code and to regularly certify compliance with it. Additionally, the Company maintains a global ethics and integrity helpline for employees and stakeholders to report questions or concerns regarding potential violations of the Code, Company policies, or the law. Employee Health and Safety CNH's approach to occupational health and safety is based on preventive and proactive measures, implemented both collectively and individually, aimed at minimizing the risk of injury in the workplace. The Company endeavors to ensure optimal working conditions, applying principles of industrial hygiene, ergonomics, and occupational safety across its processes. Its safety management system includes the involvement of employees in identifying and reporting work related hazards, risks, and potentially unsafe situations. This approach is intended to promote common, ethical occupational health and safety principles, and enables the achievement of improvement targets using various tools, including training and awareness campaigns. Key areas of focus are pursuit of a zero-accident and zero-injury rate, extension of ISO 45001 certification, and implementation of initiatives to increase employee health and safety awareness via multiple tools (e.g., training courses, corporate Intranet, video tutorials). 14 Employee Compensation and Benefits The Company is committed to providing a base pay that, in compliance with local regulations, is competitive with the local market, affordable from a business perspective, and aligned with the Company's achieve and earn philosophy. CNH has defined a compensation approach that is comprised of several different components. This comprehensive package rewards employees for their contribution to the Company's results and allows them to have their share in the business success they help to create. Base salary, benefits, and short and long-term incentives are determined by market-driven benchmarks. Short-term incentives are influenced by individual employee contribution, which is evaluated through a performance evaluation program that is deployed throughout the entire organization. The same metrics and methodology are applied in the annual performance assessment of all eligible employees worldwide. The Company provides employee benefits programs that comply with local regulatory requirements as well as align with market prevalences. Additionally, the Company employs a formal process to monitor the application of its core equity and fairness principles to compensation levels, annual salary reviews, and promotions. Employee Welfare and Well Being Employee welfare and well-being initiatives are an important part of the Company's employee engagement. CNH offers well-being initiatives in addition to traditional benefits (such as health care), going beyond its legal obligations in the countries where it operates. The aim is to help employees balance their personal commitments through time and money saving initiatives and flexible working arrangements, while cultivating motivation, pride, and a sense of belonging at work through family activities, engagement with the community and involvement in Company life. Training and Development CNH believes that employee training is key to skill management and development. Training allows sharing operational and business know-how, as well as the Company's strategy and values. The Company manages training through a 4-step process: training needs identification, content development, program delivery, and reporting. Ownership of each lies with different corporate functions, depending on which areas of content or expertise need to be improved. The Training Management Model is business-oriented and therefore closely involves business functions on content areas such as: • business and job-specific skills • new business methodologies • shared tools, languages, soft skills, legal aspects and compliance, ethics, etc. CNH manages the overall training process through an internet-based global learning management system. The Company provides a consistent global framework for employee development such as Power Skills, LinkedIn Learning, and leadership programs, while complementing it with targeted offerings at the regional and business level. This hybrid approach ensures the Company leverages the benefits of global consistency while tailoring solutions to local needs. Employees are given the opportunity to indicate development and training needs as part of a Performance Management Process, and to propose actions to support their personal development during the year. Training effectiveness and efficiency are monitored and measured based on the participants' satisfaction with the initiatives delivered and improvements in their knowledge/skills; in some cases, depending on the learning path, structured follow-ups are provided. Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters CNH develops, manufactures and sells products and offers services around the world, subject to product requirements related to equipment emissions, product safety, and fuel efficiency, as well as requirements applicable to the Company's manufacturing facilities concerning air emissions, waste, and water management, handling of hazardous materials, prohibitions on soil contamination, and worker health and safety. These extensive regional, national and local laws and regulations often impact the development of the Company's products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to engines. CNH has made, and expects to continue to make, significant capital and R&D expenditures to comply with these standards now and in the future. CNH is conducting environmental investigatory or remedial activities at certain properties that are currently, or were formerly, owned and/or operated by the Company, or that are being decommissioned. The Company believes that the outcome of these activities will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position or results of operations while helping to restore environmental conditions. 15 The Company's operations and the activities of our employees, contractors and agents around the world are subject to the laws and regulations of numerous countries, including the United States. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, antitrust regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental officials and others, federal and state environmental regulations, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. Any violations of such laws or regulations could also result in prohibitions on the Company's ability to offer products and services in one or more countries and could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition. CNH global operations are also subject to risks of violations of laws prohibiting improper payments and bribery, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as a range of national anti-corruption and antitrust or competition laws that apply within specific jurisdictions. The Company has implemented a compliance program to promote adherence to these laws and reduce the likelihood of potential violations. However, the program may not in every instance protect the Company from acts committed by its employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that may violate applicable laws or regulations in the jurisdictions in which CNH operates. Such improper actions could subject the Company to civil or criminal investigations and monetary, injunctive and other penalties or damage claims. Available Information Our internet address is www.cnh.com . We make the following reports filed by us available, free of charge, on our website under the heading "Investor Relations; Financials; SEC Filings". • annual reports on Form 10-K; • quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; • current reports on Form 8-K; and • proxy statement, and annual meeting materials for the annual meetings of stockholders. These reports are made available on our website as soon as practicable after they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC also maintains a website ( www.sec.gov ) that contains our reports and other information filed with the SEC. We also provide governance and other company information on our website. These materials are provided for informational purposes only. None of these materials, including the other materials available on our website, are incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K unless expressly provided herein. 16 Information about CNH Executive Officers The names, ages and positions of CNH executive officers as of February 26, 2026 are shown below. CNH executive officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Name Current Position with CNH and Effective Date Other Principal Positions Held During Past 5 Years Gerrit Marx (50) Chief Executive Officer (2024) CEO of Iveco Group (2022-2024), President of Commercial and Specialty Vehicles at CNH (2019-2021) James A.J. Nickolas (55) Chief Financial Officer (2025) CFO of Martin Marietta Materials, Inc. ( 2017-2025) Humayun Chishti (51) President, Construction (2024) Vice President, Global Finance for CNH Construction (2020-2024), Director of Financial Planning and Analysis for CNH Agriculture (2019) Douglas MacLeod (55) President, Financial Services (2024) President of CNH Industrial Capital LLC (2021- 2023), Global Finance Business Partner for CNH Financial Services (2011-2021) Stefano Pampalone (58) Agriculture Chief Commercial Officer (2024) President, Construction at CNH (2019-2024) Britton Worthen (52) Chief Legal and Compliance Officer (2025) Chief Legal Officer at Nikola Corporation (2015-2025) Jay Schroeder (55) Chief Technology Officer (2024) Global Agriculture Product Development (2021-2023) at CNH, following various R&D and Product Development leadership positions (2020 and prior) Francesco Tutino (46) Chief Human Resources Officer (2025) Group Chief Human Resources & Organizational Officer at Prysmian (2024), Chief Human Resources and IT Officer at Iveco Group (2022-2024) Item 1A. Risk Factors We face many risks and uncertainties, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. This section describes what we consider to be the most significant risks to our business based upon current knowledge, information and assumptions. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide our current expectations and projections relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance, and business. Words such as "believe," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "will," "should," "plan," "forecast," "target," "guide," "project," "intend," "could," and similar words or expressions may signify forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date on which such forward-looking statement was made, except as required by applicable law. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those that we expected. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, or cautionary statements, and other important information about forward-looking statements are disclosed under Item 1A, "Risk Factors," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A")–Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements," in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following risks should be considered in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", including the risks and uncertainties described in the Forward-Looking Statements and "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements" beginning on page 75 . The following is a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that we believe are material to our business. These risks may affect our operating results and, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results. Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all of our businesses. Although risks are organized by headings, and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future 17 events, or otherwise. You should, however, consult any subsequent disclosures we make from time to time in materials filed with the SEC. SUMMARY RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks, including but not limited to: Strategic risks — macroeconomic cycles, trade and political risks, competitive and innovation challenges, execution of strategic initiatives, and environmental and demand shifts — are material risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. • Global economic conditions, including the agricultural market business cycle, impact our businesses . • We are exposed to political, economic, trade and other risks beyond our control as a result of operating a global business . ▪ International trade policies may impact demand for our products and our competitive position . • Reduced demand for equipment would reduce our sales and profitability. • Competitive activity, or failure by us to respond to actions by our competitors, could adversely affect our results of operations . • Changes in government monetary or fiscal policies may negatively impact our results . • Our future performance depends on our ability to innovate and on market acceptance of new or existing products . • If we are unable to deliver precision technology solutions to our customers, it could materially adversely affect our performance. • We may face challenges to our intellectual property rights which could adversely affect our reputation, business and competitive position. • We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our business improvement and cost reduction initiatives . • We may not be able to realize anticipated benefits from any acquisitions and, further, challenges associated with strategic alliances may have an adverse impact on our results of operations . • Our business may be affected by climate-related risks, unfavorable weather conditions or other calamities . • Changes in demand for food and alternative energy sources could impact our revenues . Operational risks include supplier and dealer dependencies, emerging‑market and expansion risks, legal and contingent-liability exposures, and workforce and execution challenges that could materially affect our results. • We depend on suppliers for raw materials, parts and components . • Our existing operations and expansion plans in emerging markets entail significant risks . • Dealer equipment sourcing and inventory management decisions could adversely affect our sales . • Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by various types of claims, lawsuits, and other contingent obligations . • We face risks associated with our employment relationships . • Our ability to execute our strategy depends upon our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Cybersecurity and digital risks include potential breaches, system failures, vulnerabilities in connected products, and technical or regulatory constraints that could limit the development and deployment of advanced automation, any of which could materially affect operations, data security, and our financial or reputational position. • Cybersecurity breaches or IT system disruptions could impair operations, compromise data, and result in legal, financial, or reputational harm. • Our information technology systems may be susceptible to cybersecurity threats, failures, and other disruptions. • Unauthorized access to, or manipulation of, our connected products could diminish customer confidence and result in potential legal or financial exposure. • Technical or regulatory limitations may impact our ability to develop and deploy advanced automation, autonomy, and artificial intelligence. • Disruptions or failures in our technology systems could adversely affect our business. Compliance risks include evolving regulatory requirements, privacy and financial‑services rule changes, enforcement exposure that could materially affect our financial condition, results and investor confidence. • We are subject to increasingly stringent and evolving laws that impose significant compliance costs. • We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, the violation of which could expose CNH to potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects. . 18 • Changes in privacy laws could disrupt our business. • New regulations or changes in financial services regulations could adversely impact us . Financial and taxation risks — including financing and covenant constraints, market volatility, Financial Services credit concentration, pension funding, high leverage, tax‑residency and passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") exposure — could materially affect our liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. • Difficulty in obtaining financing or refinancing existing debt could impact our financial performance. • We are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate changes and other market risks. • Because Financial Services provides financing for a significant portion of our sales worldwide, our operations and financial results could be impacted materially should negative economic conditions affect the financial services industry . • An increase in delinquencies or repossessions could adversely affect the results of Financial Services. • We may be exposed to shortfalls in our pension plans. • We have significant outstanding indebtedness, which may limit our ability to obtain additional funding and may limit our financial and operating flexibility. • Restrictive covenants in our debt agreements could limit our financial and operating flexibility. • CNH Industrial N.V. operates, and intends to continue to operate, as a company that is resident in the U.K. for tax purposes; other tax authorities may treat CNH Industrial N.V. as being tax resident elsewhere. • The Company could be characterized as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes • We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure . Risks related to our common shares : The loyalty voting program may reduce share liquidity and market value, entrench existing management, deter potential acquirers and increase governance and investor‑relations risks, any of which could negatively affect the market price of our common shares. • The loyalty voting program may affect the liquidity of our common shares and reduce our share price . • The loyalty voting program may prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us, and the market price of our common shares may be lower as a result These risks should be considered in light of the actions we have taken to strengthen our business model, including targeted cost‑reduction initiatives, supply‑chain transformation programs such as the Strategic Sourcing Program, our company‑wide quality agenda, and maintaining robust liquidity and funding access. While these initiatives do not eliminate the risks described below, they are intended to enhance our resilience through industry cycles and periods of macroeconomic and trade uncertainty. STRATEGIC RISKS Global economic conditions, including the agricultural market business cycle, impact our businesses . Our results of operations and financial position are and will continue to be influenced by macroeconomic factors – including changes in gross domestic product, the level of consumer and business confidence, changes in interest rates, the availability of credit, inflation and deflation, energy prices, the cost of commodities or other raw materials, and the imposition of trade tariffs and other trade policies – which exist in the countries and regions in which we operate. Such macroeconomic factors vary from time to time and their effect on our results of operations and financial position cannot be specifically and singularly assessed and/or isolated. Economic conditions vary across regions and countries, and demand for our products and services generally increases in those regions and countries experiencing economic growth and investment. Slower economic growth or a change in global mix of regions and countries experiencing slower economic growth and investment could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In a weaker economic environment, dealers and customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. In addition, changes in the economic environment could have an adverse impact on our Financial Services customers' ability to service their loans in a timely manner or increase the number of defaults. Our suppliers may also be impacted by economic pressures, which may adversely affect their ability to fulfill their obligations to us or the price or availability of supplies we require. These factors could result in product delays, increased accounts receivable balances, defaults and inventory challenges. Our success largely depends on the vitality of the agricultural industry, which tends to exhibit cyclicality. Negative conditions in the agricultural industry cause weakened demand for our products and services, might limit our access to funding and adversely affect our operating efficiencies. Historically, the agricultural industry has been cyclical and subject 19 to a variety of economic and other factors. Sales of agricultural equipment, in turn, are also cyclical and generally reflect the economic health of the agricultural industry. The economic health of the agricultural industry is affected by numerous factors, including changes in general economic conditions farm income, farm input costs, farmland values, and debt levels and financing costs, all of which are influenced by the levels of commodity and protein prices, world grain stocks, acreage available and planted, crop yields, agricultural product demand, soil conditions, farm input costs, government policies, government subsidies and weather and climate conditions. Downturns in the agricultural industry due to these and other factors, which could vary by market, have in the past resulted in, and could in the future continue to result in, decreases in demand for agricultural equipment, adversely affecting our performance. Moreover, the unpredictable nature of many of these factors and the resulting volatility in demand make it difficult for us to accurately predict sales and optimize production. This, in turn, can result in higher costs, including inventory carrying costs and underutilized manufacturing capacity. During previous downturns in the agricultural industry, we experienced significant and prolonged declines in our performance, and we expect our business to remain subject to similar market fluctuations in the future. In 2025, unfavorable market conditions resulted in lower sales volumes, lower production, lower manufacturing capacity utilization, higher sales discounts, and a higher provision for credit losses. We expect certain of these conditions to persist in fiscal year 2026. Changes in interest rates and the agricultural market business cycle are driven by factors outside of our control; however, we are calibrating production, inventory levels, and commercial programs to current conditions and will adjust as markets stabilize. We are exposed to political, economic, trade and other risks beyond our control as a result of operating a global business . We manufacture and sell products and offer services in several continents and numerous countries around the world including those experiencing varying degrees of political and economic instability. Given the global nature of our activities, we are exposed to risks associated with international business activities that may increase our costs, impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products and require significant management attention. These risks include: • changes in, and uncertainty concerning, laws, regulations and policies, and particularly changes and uncertainty that affect, among other things: – International trade in particular jurisdictions, including tariffs, and other counter measures that restrict the import and export of our products, components and raw materials; – currency restrictions; – the design, manufacture and sale of our products; – interest rates and the availability of credit to our dealers and customers; – where, to whom, and what type of products may be sold, including new or additional trade or economic sanctions imposed by the United States, European Union, the United Kingdom or other governmental authorities and supranational organizations (e.g., the United Nations); and – taxes; ▪ economic and political instability in the markets in which we operate; • regulations from changing world organization initiatives and agreements; • changes in the dynamics of the industries and markets in which we operate; • labor disruptions; • disruption in the supply of raw materials and components (e.g. as a result of trade regulations, pandemics or sanctions), including rare materials (they might be easily subjected to sudden cost increases due to a variety of factors, including speculative measures or unforeseen political changes); • changes in governmental farm programs or subsidy programs in certain significant markets, including the Brazilian government discontinuing programs subsidizing interest rates on equipment loans; • withdrawal from or changes to trade agreements or trade terms, negotiation of new trade agreements and the imposition of new (and retaliatory) tariffs on certain countries or covering certain products and raw materials or embargoes; and • war, civil unrest and acts of terrorism. In recent years, acts of terrorism have occurred around the world, leading to personal safety anxieties and political instability in many countries and, ultimately, an impact on consumers' confidence. More recently, changing policies following recent elections in several major developed countries, changes in or uncertainty surrounding global trade policies and other unanticipated changes to the previous geopolitical order may have negative effects on the global economy, which could limit our ability to capitalize on current and future growth opportunities in international markets. Further, the continuing war in Ukraine and heightened tensions in the Middle East, including the Red Sea have given rise to regional instability which has in the past, and may in the future continue, to impact our supply chain and operations. 20 There can be no guarantee that we will be able to quickly and completely adapt our business model to changes that could result from the foregoing, and any such changes may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. International trade policies may impact demand for our products and our competitive position . International trade developments or changes in national laws and policies can affect demand for our products and our competitive position. Government laws and policies on international trade and investment including sanctions, import quotas, capital controls, tariffs or other retaliatory measures imposed in response to tariffs, whether adopted by non-governmental bodies, individual governments or addressed by regional trade blocks, affect the demand for our products, technology and services, impact the competitive position of our products and, in some instances may prevent us from being able to sell products to certain customers or in certain countries. The U.S. government has announced and/or implemented significant new tariffs, including targeted duties on imported steel and aluminum products, as well as baseline tariffs affecting the majority of global imports. These measures have resulted in (and may in the future result in additional) counter tariffs and other retaliatory measures by other countries. Furthermore, restrictions in trade resulting from such measures, as well as the resulting impact on global trade and general economic conditions, has had an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition; has adversely impacted the availability to us of certain products in certain countries and has disrupted our supply chains, with related impacts to our financial position and results of operations; has impacted the purchasing power and creditworthiness of our customers, resulting in reduced demand in our Industrial Activities segments or losses in our Financial Services segment; and could exacerbate inflation, diminish investment and result in broader negative impacts, including economic instability that may adversely impact demand for our products. In addition, to the extent we are unable to fully recover higher costs resulting from such measures, our margins and profitability could decline. We may be unable to increase prices concurrently with the implementation of new tariffs, which could result in a prolonged period before our prices align with the higher costs incurred from these tariffs. This delay in price adjustment may adversely affect our profit margins and overall financial performance. While there remains significant uncertainty around future policy decisions, we currently expect tariff‑related cost pressures to remain elevated into 2026, particularly in North America, and we continue to adjust sourcing, pricing, and production plans in response. Reduced demand for equipment would reduce our sales and profitability . The agricultural equipment market is influenced by a number of factors such as: • the general economic conditions and outlook, such as market volatility and rising interest rates; • the price of agricultural commodities and the ability to competitively export agricultural commodities; • the cost of borrowing; • the profitability of agricultural enterprises, farmers' income and their capitalization; • the demand for food products; • the availability of stocks from previous harvests; and • agricultural policies, including aid and subsidies to agricultural enterprises provided by governments and/or supranational organizations, policies impacting commodity prices or limiting the export or import of commodities, and alternative fuel mandates. In addition, droughts, floods, fires and other unfavorable climatic conditions, especially during the spring, a particularly important period for generating sales orders, have in the past, and could in the future continue, to have a negative impact on decisions to buy agricultural equipment and, consequently, on our revenues. The construction equipment market is influenced by factors such as: • public infrastructure spending; • new residential and non-residential construction; • capital spending in oil and gas and, to a lesser extent, mining; and • cost of borrowing. The above factors can significantly influence the demand for agricultural and construction equipment and consequently, our financial results. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience excess inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our profitability will suffer, including lower fixed costs absorption associated with lower production levels at our plants. Our business may be negatively impacted if we experience excess inventories or if we are unable to adjust on a timely basis our production schedules or our purchases from suppliers to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations. Competitive activity, or failure by us to respond to actions by our competitors, could adversely affect our results of operations . We operate in highly competitive global and regional markets. Depending on the particular country and product, we compete with other international, regional and local manufacturers and distributors of agricultural and 21 construction equipment. Certain of our global competitors have substantial resources and may be able to provide products and services at little or no profit, or even at a loss, to compete with certain of our product and service offerings. We compete primarily on the basis of product performance, innovation, quality, distribution, customer service, and price. Aggressive pricing or other strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing delays, quality issues, or our failure to price our products competitively could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. Additionally, there has been a trend toward consolidation in the construction equipment industries that has resulted in larger and potentially stronger competitors in those industries. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive in terms of product quality, innovation, pricing, reliability, safety, customer service, and financial services offered. Competition, particularly on pricing, has increased significantly in the markets in which we compete. Should we be unable to adapt effectively to market conditions, this could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. In addition, there has been an increased focus in the industry on integrating automation, machine learning, and other emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence, into agricultural and construction equipment. The integration of these technologies into our products is expected to be an increasingly important factor in our competitive positioning in the future. While CNH has been investing in the integration of new and emerging technologies into our products and manufacturing processes, if we are unable to fully adopt such technologies into our products and processes as quickly or as effectively as our competitors, it could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and our financial results. Changes in government monetary or fiscal policies may negatively impact our results . Most countries where our products and services are sold have established central banks to regulate monetary systems and influence economic activities, generally by adjusting interest rates. In recent years, many governments have implemented measures designed to slow inflationary pressure in their countries (e.g. higher interest rates, reduced financial assets purchases). Continued periods of increased interest rates could have a dampening effect on the overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of our customers, either or both of which could negatively affect demand for our products and our customers' ability to repay obligations to us. Central banks and other policy arms of many countries may take further actions to vary the amount of liquidity and credit available in an economy. The impact of a change in liquidity and credit policies could negatively affect the customers and markets we serve or our suppliers, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial conditions. Government initiatives that are intended to stimulate demand for products sold by us, such as changes in tax treatment or purchase incentives for new equipment, can significantly influence the timing and level of our revenues. The terms, size, and duration of such government actions are unpredictable and outside of our control. Any adverse change in government policy relating to those initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions. Our future performance depends on our ability to innovate and on market acceptance of new or existing products . Our success depends on our ability to maintain or increase our market share in existing markets and to expand into new markets through the development of innovative, high-quality products that provide adequate profitability. We have a strategic plan covering investments in innovation designed to further develop existing, and create new, product and service offerings responsive to customer needs, including developing and delivering connected and precision technology solutions, automation, electrification and autonomy. Achievement of these objectives is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to maintain key dealer relationships, our ability to design and produce products that meet our customers' quality, performance and price expectations, our ability to develop effective sales, dealer training and marketing programs, and the ability of our dealers to support and service connected and precision technology solutions and emerging power solutions. Failure to develop and offer innovative products that compare favorably to those of our principal competitors in terms of price, quality, functionality, features, mobility and connected services, equipment electrification, battery or fuel cell technology and autonomy, or delays in bringing strategic new products to market, or the inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or supply products that meet regulatory requirements, including engine emissions requirements, could result in reduced revenue and market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to deliver precision technology solutions to our customers, it could materially adversely affect our performance. Our precision technology solutions include both hardware and software components that relate to guidance, connectivity, automation, and autonomy. We must be able to successfully acquire, develop, and introduce new precision technology solutions that improve productivity and result in sustainable farming techniques in order to remain competitive. We expect to make significant investments in research and development expenses, collaborative arrangements, and other sources of technology to drive these outcomes. Such investments may not produce attractive solutions for our customers. We may also have to depend on third parties to supply certain hardware or software components or data services in our precision technology products. Our dealer's ability to support such solutions may also impact on our customers' acceptance and demand for such products. Further, we utilize automation and machine learning and artificial intelligence in some of our products. While the use of these emerging technologies can present significant benefits, it also creates risks and challenges as the use of artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies represent 22 novel business models without an established track record. Data sourcing, technology, integration and process issues, program bias into decision-making algorithms, security problems, and the protection of privacy could impair the adoption and acceptance of autonomous machine solutions. If we are not able to deliver precision technology solutions with differentiated features and functionality, or if these solutions are not effective, customers may not adopt technology solutions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation and business. We may face challenges to our intellectual property rights which could adversely affect our reputation, business and competitive position. We own important intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in the markets that we serve. Our competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technologies or design around the intellectual property that we own or license. Despite our controls and safeguards, our technology may be misappropriated by other parties. This risk is enhanced to the extent that other parties utilize artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies for malicious purposes. The pursuit of remedies for any misappropriation of intellectual property is expensive and the ultimate remedies may be insufficient. Further, in jurisdictions where the enforcement of intellectual property rights is less robust, the risk of misappropriation of our intellectual property is higher notwithstanding the efforts we undertake to protect it. Developments or assertions by or against us relating to intellectual property rights, and any inability to protect or enforce our rights sufficiently, could adversely affect our business, competitive position and results of operations. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our business improvement and cost reduction initiatives . As part of our strategic plan, we are actively engaged in a number of initiatives to strengthen our business and increase our productivity, market positioning, efficiency and cash flow, all of which we expect will have a positive long-term effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These initiatives include our enhanced focus on precision technology solutions and alternative propulsion, as well as other initiatives aimed at improving our manufacturing footprint, product portfolio, customer focus, distribution channel and manufacturing and business processes. There can be no assurance that we will benefit from these initiatives or others to the extent anticipated, or that the estimated efficiency or cash flow improvements will be realized to the extent anticipated or at all. If these initiatives are not successful, they could have an adverse effect on our operations, our reputation and potentially subject us to additional tariffs or other trade related regulations. We have implemented targeted restructuring actions to optimize our cost structure and improve the efficiency of our operations. Failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from our business initiatives and cost reduction actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to realize anticipated benefits from any acquisitions and, further, challenges associated with strategic alliances may have an adverse impact on our results of operations . We have engaged in the past, and may engage in the future, in investments and mergers and acquisitions or enter into, expand or exit from strategic alliances and joint ventures. These involve risks that could prevent us from realizing the expected benefits of the transactions or the achievement of strategic objectives or could divert management's time and attention. Such risks, many of which are outside our control, include: ▪ technological and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions not occurring as expected; ▪ unexpected liabilities; ▪ incompatibility of operating, information or other systems; ▪ inability to retain key employees; ▪ significant costs associated with terminating or modifying alliances; ▪ increased reliance on new partners and third-party suppliers; and ▪ problems in retaining customers and integrating operations, services, personnel, and customer bases. If issues were to arise with respect to an acquisition or the parties to one or more of our joint ventures or strategic alliances or other relationships for managerial, financial, or other reasons, or if such strategic alliances or other relationships were terminated, our product lines, businesses, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business may be affected by climate-related risks, unfavorable weather conditions or other calamities . Poor, severe or unusual weather conditions, particularly during the planting and early growing season, can significantly affect the purchasing decisions of our agricultural equipment customers. The timing and quantity of rainfall are two of the most important factors in agricultural production. Insufficient levels of rain prevent farmers from planting crops or may cause growing crops to die, resulting in lower yields. Excessive rain or flooding can also prevent planting or harvesting from 23 occurring at optimal times and may cause crop loss through increased disease or mold growth. Temperature affects the rate of growth, crop maturity, crop quality, and yield. Temperatures outside normal ranges can cause crop failure or decreased yields and may also affect disease incidence. Natural disasters such as floods, hurricanes, storms, droughts, diseases, and pests can have a negative impact on agricultural production. The resulting negative impact on farm income can strongly affect demand for our agricultural equipment in any given period. These conditions may also adversely impact the ability of our Financial Services customers to meet their payment obligations. In addition, natural disasters, pandemic illness, acts of terrorism or violence, acts of war, equipment failures, power outages, disruptions to our information technology ("IT") systems and networks or other unexpected events could result in physical damage to, and complete or partial closure of, one or more of our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of parts or component products and disruption and delay in the transport of our products to dealers and customers. If such events occur, our financial results might be negatively impacted. Our existing insurance and risk management arrangements may not protect against all costs that may arise from such events. Furthermore, the potentially long-term physical impacts of severe weather events and other climate-related incidents on our facilities, suppliers and customers and therefore on our operations are highly uncertain and will be driven by the circumstances developing in various geographical regions. These may include long-term changes in temperature and water availability. These potential physical effects may adversely impact the demand for our products and the cost, production, sales, and financial performance of our operations. Regulators in Europe have also focused efforts on requiring and promoting enhanced disclosure related to sustainability. The data required to adhere to such requirements may be based on new and changing reporting requirements or based on data that is supplied by third parties, all of which could impact the quality and consistency of data. We may face liabilities in connection with our efforts to comply with these disclosure requirements. In addition, in recent years, governments, policymakers and other stakeholders in other jurisdictions in which we operate have adopted new and evolving requirements and expectations with respect to sustainability-related disclosure and governance processes. Compliance with these requirements and expectations may require us to adopt new reporting or governance processes, which may be more complicated or costly due to diverging requirements across the different jurisdictions in which we operate. If we are unable to meet the expectations of governments, policymakers and other stakeholders with respect to our sustainability disclosure and governance practices, it could have an adverse effect on our business or reputation. Changes in demand for food and alternative energy sources could impact our revenues . Changing worldwide demand for farm outputs to meet the world's growing food and alternative energy demands, driven by a growing world population and changing government policies, are likely to result in fluctuating agricultural commodity prices, which affect sales of agricultural equipment. While higher commodity prices will benefit our crop producing agricultural equipment customers, higher commodity prices also result in greater feed costs for livestock and poultry producers, which in turn may result in lower levels of equipment purchased by these customers. Lower commodity prices directly affect farm income, which could negatively affect sales of agricultural equipment. Moreover, changing alternative energy demands may cause farmers to change the types or quantities of the crops they grow, with corresponding changes in equipment demands. Finally, changes in governmental policies regulating biofuel utilization could affect demand for our equipment and result in higher research and development costs related to equipment fuel standards. OPERATIONAL RISKS We depend on suppliers for raw materials, parts and components . We rely upon many suppliers for raw materials, parts and components that we require to manufacture our products. The failure by one or more of our suppliers to perform as expected could result in manufacturing delays, increased costs and could impact the quality and efficiency of our manufacturing capabilities. In addition, if the quality of the components or parts provided by our suppliers do not comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise do not meet our standards, it could adversely affect our business or reputation, as well as warranty costs. For example, one of our suppliers has incurred additional costs relating to additional validation testing for engines that were used in a subset of our products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain access to raw materials, parts and components, and in some cases, this access may be affected by factors outside of our control and the control of our suppliers. These factors include the negative impact of tariffs and other trade policies on our suppliers and their ability or willingness to timely deliver materials and components. Certain components and parts used in our products are available from a single supplier and cannot be quickly sourced from other suppliers. If required, the costs of switching suppliers may be substantial, and could adversely affect the quality and efficiency of our operations. Significant disruptions to the supply chain resulting from shortages of raw materials, components, and wholegoods can adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand. For example, in the past, attacks on merchant ships in the Red Sea caused shipping companies to avoid this region, which resulted in 24 increased logistics costs. While we diligently monitor our supply chain risk and seek to respond promptly to address supply chain and logistics bottlenecks, there can be no assurance that our mitigation plans will be effective to prevent disruptions that may arise from shortages of materials that we use in the production of our products. Uncertainties related to the magnitude and duration of global supply chain disruptions have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect our business and outlook. We use a variety of raw materials in our businesses, including steel, aluminum, lead, resin and copper, and precious metals such as platinum, palladium and rhodium. The availability and price of these raw materials fluctuate, particularly during times of economic volatility or regulatory and geopolitical instability or in response to changes in tariffs, and while we seek to manage this exposure, we may not be successful in mitigating these risks. Further, increases in the prices for raw materials have resulted in and could continue to result in significant increases to our costs of production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, particularly if we are unable to offset the increased costs through an increase in product pricing. Our existing operations and expansion plans in emerging markets entail significant risks . Our ability to grow our businesses depends to an increasing degree on our ability to increase market share and operate profitably worldwide and, in particular, in emerging market countries, such as Brazil, India, China, Argentina and Türkiye. In addition, we could increase our use of suppliers located in such countries. Our implementation of these strategies will involve a significant investment of capital and other resources and exposes us to multiple and potentially conflicting cultural practices, business practices and legal requirements that are subject to change, including those related to tariffs, trade barriers, investments, property ownership rights, taxation, and sanction, export control, currency exchange restrictions, capital flows restrictions and customs/import requirements. For example, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining necessary governmental approvals in a timely manner. In addition, we may experience delays and incur significant costs in constructing facilities, establishing supply channels, and commencing manufacturing operations. Further, customers in these markets may not readily accept our products as compared with products manufactured and commercialized by our competitors. The emerging market countries may also be subject to a greater degree of economic and political volatility that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Many emerging market economies have experienced slower growth, volatility, and other economic challenges in recent periods and may be subject to a further slowdown in gross domestic product expansion and/or be impacted by domestic political or currency volatility, potential hyperinflationary conditions, and/or increase of public debt. Dealer equipment sourcing and inventory management decisions could adversely affect our sales . We sell our products primarily through independent dealers and are subject to risks relating to their inventory management decisions and operating and sourcing practices. Our dealers carry inventories of finished products and parts and adjust those inventories based on their assessment of future sales opportunities and market conditions, including the level of used equipment inventory. If our dealers' inventory levels are higher than they desire, they may postpone product purchases from us, which could cause our sales to be lower than the end-user demand for our products and negatively impact our results. Similarly, our sales could be negatively impacted through the loss of time-sensitive sales if our dealers do not maintain an inventory sufficient to meet customer demand. Further, dealers who carry other products that compete with our products may focus their inventory purchases and sales efforts on goods provided by other suppliers due to industry demand or profitability. Such inventory adjustments and sourcing decisions can adversely impact our sales, results of operations, and financial conditions. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by various types of claims, lawsuits, and other contingent obligations . In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in litigation and investigations on a wide range of topics, including securities laws in the U.S., and the European Union, employee, dealer and supplier litigation, intellectual property rights disputes, product warranty and defective product claims, product performance, asbestos, personal injury, regulatory and contract issues, indirect tax issues, and environmental claims. The industries in which we operate are also periodically reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties, the imposition of remedial measures or the assertion of private litigation claims. We are currently conducting environmental investigatory or remedial activities at certain properties that are currently or were formerly owned and/or operated by us, or which are being decommissioned. Failure to comply with these remedial measures in a timely manner could result in additional costs and other adverse consequences, including as a result of enforcement actions, fines and penalties, additional remedial measures, the assertion of private litigation claims or reputational damage. Furthermore, we could in the future be subject to judgments or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain risks, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against claims under such policies. We establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies, including contingencies related to legal claims asserted against us. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss 25 contingency recorded as a reserve and require us to make payments that exceed our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or financial position. For further information see "Note 15 : Commitments and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2025 . We face risks associated with our employment relationships . In many countries where we operate, our employees are protected by laws and/or collective labor agreements that guarantee them, through local and national representatives, the right of consultation on specific matters, including repurposing, downsizing or closure of production facilities and reductions in personnel. Laws and/or collective labor agreements applicable to us could impair our flexibility in reshaping and/or strategically repositioning our business activities. Therefore, our ability to efficiently deploy personnel or implement permanent or temporary redundancy measures is subject to government approvals and/or the agreement of labor unions where such laws and agreements are applicable. Furthermore, the failure of the Company to successfully renegotiate labor agreements as they expire from time to time led, and could in the future lead, to work interruption or stoppage. Any strike, work stoppage, or other dispute with labor unions distracts management from operating the business, may affect the Company's reputation, could significantly impact the volume of products we manufacture and sell, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to execute our strategy depends upon our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our ability to compete successfully, to manage our business effectively, to expand our business and to execute our strategic direction, depends, in part, on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel in key functions and markets. In particular, we are dependent on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel with the requisite education, skills, background, talents and industry experience. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel, whether as a result of an insufficient number of qualified applicants, including applicants with the proper visa and immigration status, difficulty in recruiting new personnel, inadequate resources, or the inability to integrate and retain qualified personnel, could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and meet our business objectives. These may be affected by the loss of employees, particularly when departures involve larger numbers of employees. Higher rates of employee separations may adversely affect us through decreased employee morale, the loss of knowledge of departing employees, and the devotion of resources to recruiting and onboarding new employees. CYBERSECURITY AND DIGITAL RISKS Cybersecurity breaches or IT system disruptions could impair operations, compromise data, and result in legal, financial, or reputational harm. We rely extensively on information technology (“IT”) networks and systems—some internally managed and others operated by third‑party providers—to support and deliver a broad range of products, connected solutions, and business processes. These systems enable key functions across our operations, including product development and connectivity solutions, precision technologies, supply chain management, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing, and the collection of payments from customers and dealers. Our IT systems also support financial reporting, regulatory compliance, and internal controls. We collect, process, and store confidential and sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, and personal data from employees, dealers, suppliers, and customers. In addition, connected platforms and digital ecosystems process substantial volumes of agronomic, operational, and machine‑generated data to support customers and enable product development, including advanced analytics, automation solutions, and machine learning applications. The secure and continuous operation of these systems, networks, and data environments, including those managed by third‑party cloud providers, is critical to our business operations and strategic objectives. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to cybersecurity threats, failures, and other disruptions. Despite our implementation of preventive and detective security controls, our IT networks and those of our partners have been, and may continue to be, targeted by increasingly sophisticated cyber threats, including malware, ransomware, phishing attempts, supply chain compromises, and attempts to breach system security through AI‑enabled attack techniques. These threats also include potential intrusions, data exfiltration, outages, and operational disruptions caused by human error, third‑party failures, system upgrades, natural disasters, or deliberate attacks by cybercriminals or state‑sponsored actors. Our reliance on third‑party cloud and software‑as‑a‑service providers introduces additional risks because we do not control the underlying infrastructure. Misconfigurations, outages, or security weaknesses at vendors could result in operational disruptions, unauthorized access to data, or compromised system integrity. 26 Unauthorized access to, or manipulation of, our connected products could diminish customer confidence and result in potential legal or financial exposure. Our products rely on embedded software, electronic control units, connectivity modules, telematics interfaces, and networked communication systems. These technologies expose our equipment to cybersecurity threats, including attempts to gain unauthorized access, manipulate firmware or configuration data, spoof or disrupt in‑vehicle network messages, alter machine performance characteristics, or disable or circumvent emissions‑control or safety‑related systems. A successful compromise could result in unintended machine behavior, loss of availability of critical functions, system disruption, data manipulation, or unauthorized modification of operational, regulatory‑compliance, or safety‑related settings. While we employ secure‑by‑design engineering practices, cybersecurity testing, and product‑lifecycle controls, residual vulnerabilities may remain and cannot always be fully mitigated prior to product release. Newly discovered vulnerabilities, evolving threat activity, aftermarket tuning devices, or customer or third‑party attempts to increase engine horsepower or defeat emissions‑control systems may require corrective updates, enhanced monitoring, or other measures. Failure to identify, prevent, or remediate such risks could result in regulatory enforcement actions, civil or criminal penalties, warranty or product‑liability claims, customer disputes, or reputational harm. In addition, reports or perceptions, whether accurate or not, of unauthorized access to our products, systems, or data may create the impression that our products are vulnerable to malicious or unauthorized manipulation. Any actual or perceived vulnerability, unauthorized access, emissions‑system tampering, or loss of data could reduce customer confidence, diminish sales, or result in legal claims, governmental inquiries, liability, or regulatory penalties, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Technical or regulatory limitations may impact our ability to develop and deploy advanced automation, autonomy, and artificial intelligence. We continue to expand the use of automation, machine learning, and artificial intelligence across our products and operations. Examples include targeted spraying technologies in our sprayers, collaborative autonomy features, computer‑vision‑driven implement automation, and digital agronomic tools that support customer decision‑making. These advancements depend on complex datasets, integration of emerging technologies, and robust data governance. However, the development and deployment of these technologies involve inherent risks, such as: • data‑quality issues, algorithmic bias, and model inaccuracies; • integration challenges with legacy systems or third‑party data sources; • intellectual property considerations, particularly when leveraging third‑party AI tools; • cybersecurity implications associated with connected or autonomous systems; • higher product development and system‑testing costs; and • evolving privacy, data protection, and AI‑related regulatory frameworks affecting permissible uses of data and automation technologies. If we fail to advance these technologies at a pace consistent with industry standards or customer expectations—or if competitors deploy more effective or trusted AI‑enabled solutions—our competitive position could be negatively affected. Disruptions or failures in our technology systems could adversely affect our business. Our dependence on interconnected technology solutions across the enterprise continues to increase. System failures, difficulties in implementing new systems, poor integration, or unexpected outages could result in operational delays, reduced product demand, increased cost to serve customers, or inability to support dealers and end‑users effectively. A significant disruption in any of our core systems or digital platforms could weaken customer confidence and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 27 COMPLIANCE RISKS We are subject to increasingly stringent and evolving laws that impose significant compliance costs. We are subject to comprehensive and constantly evolving laws, regulations and policies in numerous jurisdictions around the world. We expect the extent of legal requirements affecting our businesses and our costs of compliance to continue to increase in the future. Such laws govern, among other things, products – with requirements on emissions of polluting gases and particulate matter, increased fuel efficiency and safety constantly evolving, and industrial plants – with requirements for reduced air emissions, treatment of waste and water, and prohibitions on soil contamination also constantly changing. To comply with such laws, we make significant investments in research and development and capital expenditures and expect to continue to incur substantial costs in the future. Failure to comply with such laws could limit or prohibit our ability to sell our products in a particular jurisdiction, expose us to penalties or clean-up costs, civil or criminal liability and sanctions on certain of our activities, as well as damage to property or natural resources. Liabilities, sanctions, damages and remediation efforts related to any non-compliance with such laws, including those that may be adopted or imposed in the future, could negatively impact our ability to conduct our operations and our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to any subsequently acquired operations. Further, environmental, health and safety regulations change from time to time, as may related interpretations and other guidance. For example, changes in environmental and sustainability-related laws, including laws relating to engine and equipment emissions, safety regulations, sustainability, fuel requirements, restricted substances, or greenhouse gas emissions, could lead to new or additional investments in product designs to comply with these regulations. Our internal combustion engines are primarily supplied by FPT Industrial S.p.A., a company controlled by Iveco N.V., and compliance with emissions regulations is contractually allocated to our suppliers. Failure of our suppliers to ensure compliance with the applicable regulations may subject us to administrative and legal proceedings and other material consequences. Further, we may experience production delays if our suppliers are unable to design and manufacture components for our products that comply with environmental standards. For instance, as we are required to meet more stringent engine emission reduction standards that are applicable to engines we incorporate into our products, we expect to meet these requirements through the introduction of new technology to our products, engines and exhaust after-treatment systems, as necessary. Failure to meet applicable requirements could materially affect our performance. Changes to existing laws and regulations or changes to how they are interpreted or the implementation of new, more stringent laws or regulations could adversely affect our business by increasing compliance costs, limiting our ability to offer a product or service, requiring changes to our business practices, or otherwise making our products and services less attractive to customers. For example, so-called "right to repair" legislation proposals in certain states and at the federal level in the U.S. could require us to provide access to the software code embedded in our products, which, among other harmful consequences, could create product safety issues, compromise engine emissions and performance controls, adversely affect the protection of our intellectual property. In addition, as we incorporate artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies into our products and operations, we may become subject to additional regulations, which could result in increased costs, liabilities or claims in connection with our use of such technologies. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, the violation of which could expose CNH to potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects. Due to the global scope of our operations, we are subject to many laws and regulations that apply to our operations around the world, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as a range of national anti-corruption and antitrust or competition laws that apply to conduct in a particular jurisdiction. These anti-corruption laws prohibit improper payments in cash or anything of value to improperly influence third parties to obtain or retain business or gain a business advantage. These laws tend to apply regardless of whether those practices are legal or culturally acceptable in a particular jurisdiction. Over the past several years there has been an increase in the enforcement of anti-corruption and antitrust or competition laws both globally and in particular jurisdictions and we have from time to time been subject to investigations and charges claiming violations of anti-corruption or antitrust or competition laws. We are committed to operating in compliance with all applicable laws, in particular, anti-corruption and antitrust or competition laws. We have implemented a program to promote compliance with these laws and to reduce the likelihood of potential violations. Our compliance program, however, may not in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that may violate the applicable laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary, injunctive and other penalties as well as damage claims. Investigations of alleged violations of these laws tend to be expensive and require significant management time and attention, and these investigations of purported violations, as well as any publicity regarding potential violations, could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. For further information see "Note 15 : Commitments and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements at December 31, 2025 . 28 Changes in privacy laws could disrupt our business. The regulatory framework for privacy and data security issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. We collect personal information and other data as part of our business operations. This data is subject to a variety of U.S. and foreign laws and regulations. For example, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation imposes more stringent data protection requirements and provides significant penalties for noncompliance. New privacy laws will continue to come into effect around the world. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these and other privacy and data security laws, rules and regulations. Any inability to adequately address privacy and security concerns or comply with applicable privacy and data security laws, rules and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations and/or financial position. New regulations or changes in financial services regulations could adversely impact us . Our Financial Services' operations are highly regulated by governmental and banking authorities in the locations where we operate, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on our business. Failure to comply with such regulations could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties, the imposition of remedial measures or could result in the assertion of private litigation claims. In addition, an investigation or enforcement action in one jurisdiction could result in similar investigations or enforcement actions being initiated across multiple jurisdictions, further increasing our compliance costs. In North America, for example, our Financial Services segment is subject to regulations that affect the origination, servicing, and securitization of receivables. Future regulations from federal, state or provincial regulators may affect our ability to engage in these capital market activities or increase the effective cost of such transactions, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. FINANCIAL AND TAXATION RISKS Difficulty in obtaining financing or refinancing existing debt could impact our financial performance. Our performance depends on, among other things, our ability to finance debt repayment obligations and planned investments from operating cash flow, available liquidity, the renewal or refinancing of existing bank loans and/or facilities and access to capital markets or other sources of financing. A decline in revenues could have a negative impact on the cash-generating capacity of our operations. Consequently, we could find ourselves in the position of having to seek additional financing and/or having to refinance existing debt, including in unfavorable market conditions with limited availability of funding and a general increase in funding costs. Instability in global capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate and exchange rate volatility, could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of our short and long-term financing. Any difficulty in obtaining financing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Our ability to access the capital markets or other forms of financing and related costs is highly dependent on, among other things, the credit ratings of CNH Industrial N.V., its subsidiaries, ABS and other debt instruments. Rating agencies review and revise their ratings from time to time, and downgrades or other negative actions with respect to our credit ratings by one or more rating agencies may increase our cost of capital, potentially limit our access to sources of financing, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate changes and other market risks. We operate in numerous markets worldwide and are exposed to market risks stemming from fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including as a result of changes in monetary or fiscal policies of governmental authorities from time to time. We are subject to currency exchange risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In addition, the reporting currency for our Consolidated Financial Statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are denominated in other currencies. Those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are translated into the U.S. dollar at the applicable exchange rates to prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements. Therefore, increases or decreases in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and those other currencies affect the value of those items reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, even if their value remains unchanged in their original currency. Changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Rising interest rates could have a dampening effect on overall economic activity as well as on the financial health of our customers, either of which could negatively affect customer demand for our products and services as well as customers' ability to service any financing provided by our Financial Services segment. In addition, credit market dislocations could have an impact on funding costs, which in turn may make it more difficult for our Financial Services Segment to offer customers competitive financing rates. We also use various forms of financing to cover the funding requirements of our Industrial Activities and for financing offered to customers and dealers by Financial Services. Financial Services normally implements a matching policy to offset the impact of differences in interest rates on the financed portfolio and related liabilities. Nevertheless, any future changes in interest rates can result in increases or decreases in revenues, finance costs, and margins. 29 Although we seek to manage our currency risk and interest rate risk, including through hedging activities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully, and our business, results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. In addition, by utilizing these instruments, we potentially forego the benefits that may result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates. For additional information, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" of this Form 10-K. We also face risks from currency devaluations. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country suffering the devaluation. Because Financial Services provides financing for a significant portion of our sales worldwide, our operations and financial results could be impacted materially should negative economic conditions affect the financial services industry . Negative economic conditions can have an adverse effect on the financial services industry in which Financial Services operates. Financial Services, through wholly-owned financial services subsidiaries and joint ventures, provides financing for a significant portion of our sales worldwide. Financial Services may experience credit losses that exceed its expectations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations, particularly during periods of economic downturns. Financial Services' inability to access funds at cost-effective rates to support its financing activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. Financial Services' liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital in order to meet future cash flow requirements and to fund operations and costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities. Additionally, negative market conditions,like those experienced in 2025, which have included higher provisions for credit losses and increased risk costs in certain regions, particularly South America; the persistence or worsening of such conditions into 2026 could further impact our Financial Services performance. Financial Services may also experience residual value losses that exceed its expectations caused by lower pricing for used equipment and higher than expected equipment returns at lease maturity. An increase in delinquencies or repossessions could adversely affect the results of Financial Services. Fundamental in the operation of Financial Services is the credit risk associated with its customers/borrowers. The creditworthiness of each customer, rates of delinquency and default, repossessions and net losses on loans to customers are impacted by many factors, including: relevant industry and general economic conditions; the availability of capital; the terms and conditions applicable to extensions of credit; the experience and skills of the customer's management team; commodity prices; interest rates; political events, including government-mandated moratoria on payments; weather and other climate events; and the value of the collateral securing the extension of credit. An increase in delinquencies or defaults, or a reduction in repossessions could have an adverse impact on the performance of Financial Services and our earnings and cash flows. In addition, although Financial Services evaluates and adjusts its allowance for credit losses related to past due or non-performing receivables on a regular basis, adverse business conditions or other factors that might cause deterioration of the customers' financial health could change the timing and level of payments received and thus necessitate an increase in Financial Services' reserves for estimated losses, which could have a material adverse effect on Financial Services' and our results of operations and cash flows. We may be exposed to shortfalls in our pension plans. At December 31, 2025, the funded status for our defined benefit pension, healthcare and other postemployment benefit plans was a deficit of $327 million. The funded status is subject to many factors, as discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operation—Critical Accounting Estimates—Pension and Other Postemployment Benefits," as well as "Note 13 : Employee Benefit Plans and Postretirement Benefits" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2025. To the extent that our obligations under a plan are unfunded or underfunded, we will have to use cash flows from operations and other sources to pay our obligations as they become due. In addition, since the assets that currently fund these obligations are primarily invested in debt instruments and equity securities, the value of these assets is subject to changes due to market fluctuations. We have significant outstanding indebtedness, which may limit our ability to obtain additional funding and may limit our financial and operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2025, we had an aggregate of $26,762 million (including $22,861 million relating to Financial Services' activities) of consolidated gross indebtedness, and our equity was $7,772 million, including noncontrolling interests. The extent of our indebtedness could have important consequences on our operations and financial results, including: ▪ we may not be able to secure additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or general corporate purposes; ▪ we may need to use a portion of our projected future cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which may reduce the amount of funds available to us for other purposes; 30 ▪ we may be more financially leveraged than some of our competitors, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage; ▪ we may not be able to invest in the development or introduction of new products or new business opportunities; ▪ our future cash flow may be exposed to the risk of interest rate volatility (see above); ▪ we may not be able to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions, which may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions; and ▪ we may not be able to access the capital markets on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to provide competitive retail and wholesale financing programs. These risks are exacerbated by the ongoing volatility in the financial markets, in part resulting from perceived strains on the finances and creditworthiness of several governments and financial institutions, and from continued concerns about global economic growth, particularly in emerging markets. Restrictive covenants in our debt agreements could limit our financial and operating flexibility. The agreements governing our outstanding debt securities and other credit agreements to which we are a party from time to time contain, or may contain, covenants that restrict our ability to, among other things: ▪ incur additional indebtedness by certain subsidiaries; ▪ make certain investments; ▪ enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; ▪ sell or acquire certain assets or merge with or into other companies; and/or ▪ use assets as security in other transactions. A breach of one or more of the covenants could result in adverse consequences that could negatively impact our businesses, results of operations, and financial position. These consequences may include the acceleration of amounts outstanding under certain of our credit facilities, triggering an obligation to redeem certain debt securities, termination of existing unused commitments by our lenders, refusal by our lenders to extend further credit under one or more of the facilities or to enter into new facilities or the lowering or modification of CNH's credit ratings or those of one or more of its subsidiaries. For further information, see "Note 10 : Debt" to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2025 , for additional information. CNH Industrial N.V. operates, and intends to continue to operate, as a company that is resident in the U.K. for tax purposes; other tax authorities may treat CNH Industrial N.V. as being tax resident elsewhere. CNH Industrial N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands. In order to maintain its tax residence in the U.K., CNH Industrial N.V.'s central management and control must be located (in whole or in part) in the U.K. The U.K. and Dutch competent authorities have agreed, following a mutual agreement procedure (as contemplated by the Netherlands-U.K. tax treaty), that CNH will be regarded as solely resident in the U.K. for purposes of the application of the Netherlands-U.K. tax treaty based on the facts and circumstances outlined in the Company's mutual agreement application. If the facts upon which the competent authorities issued this ruling change over time, this ruling may be withdrawn or cease to apply and in that case the Netherlands may impose withholding taxes on dividends distributed to non-residents by CNH Industrial N.V. and may levy Dutch corporate income tax on CNH Industrial N.V.. Further, tax authorities in jurisdictions outside the U.K. and the Netherlands could challenge the application of tax treaties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. CNH Industrial N.V. should not be deemed resident in Italy under Italian domestic law except to the extent of CNH Industrial N.V.'s Italian branch. CNH Industrial N.V. should be deemed resident exclusively in the U.K. from the date of its incorporation for purposes of the Italy-U.K. tax treaty. Because this analysis is highly factual and may depend on future changes in CNH's management and organizational structure, tax authorities may disagree with our determination of the Company's tax residence. Should CNH Industrial N.V. be treated as an Italian tax resident beyond its Italian branch, Italy may impose withholding taxes on dividends distributed by CNH Industrial N.V. and levy corporate income tax on CNH Industrial N.V.'s worldwide income, and tax authorities in jurisdictions outside of the U.K. and the Netherlands could challenge the application of tax treaties, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Company could be characterized as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The U.S. federal income tax rules provide specific tax rules applicable to shareholders in companies that meet the definition of a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We believe that the Company is not a passive foreign investment company, but this conclusion is a factual determination made annually and may be subject to change. U.S. Holders of our ordinary shares may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a PFIC. 31 We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure . We are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income-based taxes, in various jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Our tax liabilities are dependent upon the mix of earnings among these different jurisdictions. Our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the consolidated effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes to our transfer pricing approach, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles and changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. If our effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed is for an amount in excess of amounts previously accrued or paid, our operating results, cash flows, and financial position could be adversely affected. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Taxation. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON SHARES The loyalty voting program may affect the liquidity of our common shares and reduce our share price . CNH's loyalty voting program was established to reward shareholders for maintaining long-term share ownership by granting at inception initial shareholders and subsequently any other person holding shares continuously for at least three years, the option to elect to receive special voting shares. Issuance of special voting shares is subject to various conditions set forth in the Company's constituting documents, including the registration of the common shares held by each shareholder requesting the issuance of special voting shares in the CNH Loyalty Register. Special voting shares have minimal economic entitlements and cannot be traded. In the event any shareholder holding such special voting shares intends to transfer its common shares from the CNH Loyalty Register, immediately prior to such transfer, any corresponding special voting shares shall be transferred to CNH for no consideration (om niet) . This loyalty voting program is designed to encourage a stable shareholder base, and, conversely, it may deter trading by those shareholders who are interested in gaining or retaining special voting shares. Therefore, the loyalty voting structure may reduce liquidity in our common shares and adversely affect their trading price when compared to a situation where the loyalty voting program did not exist. The loyalty voting program may prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to change our management and hinder efforts to acquire a controlling interest in us, and the market price of our common shares may be lower as a result. The provisions of our Articles of Association establishing the loyalty voting program may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or attempt to acquire, control of CNH, even if a change of control is considered favorably by shareholders holding a majority of our common shares. As a result of the loyalty voting program, a relatively large proportion of the voting power of our common shares could be concentrated in a relatively small number of shareholders who would have significant influence over us. As of January 31, 2026 , EXOR N.V. had a voting interest in CNH of approximately 45.6%. For further information, see "Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" and "Note 22: Related Party Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements at December 31, 2025 . Such shareholders participating in the loyalty voting program could effectively prevent change of control transactions that may otherwise benefit our shareholders. The loyalty voting program may also prevent or discourage shareholders' initiatives aimed at changes in our management.