{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":406136,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
ITEM 1. BUSINESS. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide our current expectations and projections relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance, and business. You can identify forward-looking statements as they do not relate to historical or current facts and by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “will,” “aim,” “should,” “plan,” “forecast,” “target,” “guide,” “project,” “intend,” “could,” and similar words or expressions. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those that we expected. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, or cautionary statements, and other important information about forward-looking statements are disclosed under Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Forward-Looking Statements,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As used herein, the terms “John Deere,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or “the Company” refer collectively to Deere & Company and its subsidiaries, unless designated or identified otherwise. All amounts are presented in millions of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise specified. Products John Deere has manufactured agricultural equipment since 1837. Deere & Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1958. Our business is managed through the following four business segments: Production & Precision Agriculture (PPA), Small Agriculture & Turf (SAT), Construction & Forestry (CF), and Financial Services (John Deere Financial or FS). ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ BUSINESS SEGMENT ​ PRODUCTION & PRECISION AGRICULTURE ​ SMALL AGRICULTURE & TURF ​ CONSTRUCTION & FORESTRY ​ FINANCIAL SERVICES PRODUCTS ​ ● 4WD/track and row crop tractors ● Harvesters ● Cotton Pickers and Cotton Strippers ● Sugarcane Harvesters ● Sugarcane Loaders ● Soil Preparation, Tillage, Seeding, Application, and Crop Care Equipment ​ ● Specialty, Utility, and Compact Tractors ● Self-Propelled Forage Harvesters and Attachments ● Hay and Forage Equipment ● Rotary Mowers ● Utility Vehicles ● Riding Lawn Equipment and Commercial Mowing Equipment ● Golf Course Equipment ​ ● Backhoe Loaders ● Crawler Dozers and Loaders ● Skid Steers ● Four-Wheel-Drive Loaders ● Compact Wheel Loaders ● Excavators and Compact Excavators ● Equipment used in Timber Harvesting ● Road Building and Road Rehabilitation Equipment ● Articulated Dump Trucks and Motor Graders ​ ● Retail Notes ● Revolving Charge Accounts ● Wholesale Receivables ● Leases ● Extended Warranties ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ CROPS/FUNCTION ​ ● Corn and Soy ● Small Grain ● Cotton ● Sugarcane ​ ● Dairy and Livestock ● Lawn and Property Maintenance ● Golf Course Maintenance ● High-Value Crops and Small Acreage Crops ​ ● Earthmoving ● Forestry ● Roadbuilding ​ ● Financial Solutions ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ 2 Table of Contents Smart Industrial Operating Model and Leap Ambitions Our Smart Industrial Operating Model aims to deliver greater value for our customers, accelerate our competitive advantage in advanced technologies, build on our fundamental manufacturing strengths and core values, and capitalize on opportunities that lie ahead by leveraging advanced technologies with our operational excellence. To drive these outcomes, we are focused on the following three pillars: Production Systems . A strategic alignment of products and solutions around our customers’ production systems. Production systems refer to the series of steps our customers take to execute different tasks, operations, and projects to grow an agricultural product or execute a project. Technology Stack . Investments in technology, as well as research and development, which deliver intelligent solutions to our customers through hardware and devices, embedded software, connectivity, data platforms, and applications. The technology stack leverages these core technologies across the enterprise, including digital capabilities, automation and machine learning, and autonomy. The stack has the potential to unlock economic and sustainable value for customers by optimizing jobs, strengthening decision-making, and better connecting the steps of a production system. Lifecycle Solutions . The enterprise integration of our aftermarket and support capabilities to more effectively manage customer equipment, service, and technology needs across the full lifetime of a John Deere product, and with a specific lifecycle solution focus on the ownership experience. This integrated support seeks to enhance customer value through proactive and reactive support, easy access to parts, value-add services, and precision upgrades, regardless of when a customer purchases our equipment. In 2022, we introduced our Leap Ambitions (“Ambitions”), a set of focused goals designed to guide the implementation of our Smart Industrial Operating Model. These Ambitions are built upon a foundation of product quality and manufacturing excellence, supported by a best-in-class dealer channel, and enabled by employees dedicated to solving some of the world’s most important problems. To build on our accomplishments and lay the foundation for sustained growth as we move toward 2030, in December 2025 we refined our Ambitions. Our refined Ambitions feature long-term financial and operational goals, emphasizing the use of our differentiated equipment and service solutions, including automation, autonomy, digitalization, lifecycle solutions, and Solutions as a Service (SaaS). Utilization of these solutions is currently measured through various performance indicators. Our refined Ambitions and their timelines may be updated from time to time. In addition, we may not be able to achieve these goals for a variety of reasons, some of which may be beyond our control. See Item 1A Risk Factors, “Strategic Risks— We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our Smart Industrial Operating Model and Leap Ambitions.” Equipment Operations Our equipment operations consist of three of our business segments: PPA, SAT, and CF. In fiscal year 2025, PPA generated $17,311 net sales, or 45% of equipment operations net sales; SAT generated $10,224 net sales, or 26% of equipment operations net sales; and CF generated $11,382 net sales, or 29% of equipment operations net sales. Production & Precision Agriculture The PPA segment is committed to meeting the fundamental needs of our customers through a combination of equipment and technology designed to enable our customers to overcome some of their biggest challenges: doing more with less, labor shortages, volatile input costs, and executing jobs in tighter timeframes. This segment defines, develops, and delivers global equipment and technology solutions for production-scale growers of crops like large grains (such as corn and soy), small grains (such as wheat, oats, and barley), cotton, and sugarcane. Equipment manufactured and distributed by the segment includes four-wheel-drive (4WD)/track and row crop tractors, harvesters, cotton pickers, cotton strippers, sugarcane harvesters, sugarcane loaders, and related harvesting front-end equipment. In addition, the segment includes tillage, seeding, and application equipment, including sprayers and nutrient management, and soil preparation machinery, and related attachments and service parts. We continue to invest in the development and production of advanced technology through integrated agricultural solutions and precision technologies across our portfolio of equipment. We believe our investments in precision technology will transform our farmers’ equipment into smarter, more efficient machines. We have developed a production system-level approach that helps us understand how customers operate, focusing on their costs, identifying the opportunities for them to reduce inputs, and to improve productivity, crop yields, and sustainability. Advancements such as precise global navigation satellite systems technology, advanced connectivity and telematics, on-board sensors and computing power, automation software, digital tools, applications, and analytics provide seamless integration of information designed to improve customer decision-making and job execution. Our advanced telematics systems remotely connect equipment owners, business managers, and dealers to equipment in the field through the John Deere Operations Center ™, our digital management system that allows customers to access farm and jobsite 3 Table of Contents information through their devices . This connection provides real-time alerts and information about equipment location, utilization, performance, and maintenance to improve productivity and efficiency, as well as to monitor agronomic job execution. We are beginning to leverage technology from our PPA segment across other business segments. For example, cameras, obstacle detection, radars, and machine learning have been applied to our CF Smart Detect™ tool to identify obstacles on jobsites. In addition, CF roadbuilding customers are now able to access the John Deere Operations Center™, enabling them to view near real-time data and insights to help make informed decisions, streamline maintenance, and track productivity. In addition to John Deere brand names, the table below provides a list of select PPA products and their associated brand names: PRODUCT BRAND NAME Sprayers Hagie, Mazzotti Planters and Cultivators Monosem Sprayers and Planters PLA Carbon Fiber Sprayer Booms King Agro Technology Harvest Profit, Sentera Aftermarket and Precision Upgrades A & I, Unimil by John Deere, Alternatives by John Deere, Frontier, Surepoint Small Agriculture & Turf SAT is committed to meeting the needs of our customers through defining, developing, and delivering global equipment and technology solutions for dairy and livestock producers, high-value crop and small acre crop producers, and turf and utility customers. The segment works to provide product leadership while extending integrated agricultural solutions and precision technologies across its portfolio of equipment. Equipment manufactured and distributed by the segment includes specialty, utility, and compact tractors, hay and forage equipment, including self-propelled forage harvesters and attachments, balers, and mowers; turf and utility equipment, including riding lawn equipment, commercial mowing equipment, golf course equipment, utility vehicles, implements for mowing, tilling, snow and debris handling, aerating, and other residential, commercial, golf, and sports turf care applications; and related attachments and service parts. SAT equipment is sold primarily through independent retail dealer networks, although the segment also builds turf products for sale by mass retailers, including The Home Depot and Lowe’s. Our turf equipment is sold primarily in North American, Western European, and Australian markets. In the small agriculture market, we are developing autonomous solutions, connectivity capabilities, and a path to electrifying our future by delivering a portfolio that helps current customers meet sustainability goals while finding innovative ways to serve new customers and unlock new markets for mechanization at scale. In addition to John Deere brand names, the table below provides a list of select SAT products and their associated brand names: PRODUCT BRAND NAME Equipment Attachments Frontier, Kemper, GreenSystem, Smart Apply Sprayers GUSS Aftermarket and Precision Updates A&I, Sunbelt Outdoor Products, Alternatives by John Deere, Frontier Agriculture and Turf Operations Business Environment . Sales of agricultural equipment are affected by total farm cash receipts, which reflect levels of farm commodity and protein prices, world grain stocks, acreage available and planted, crop yields, soil conditions, farm input costs, government policies, including global trade policies, and the amount and timing of government support. Sales also are influenced by general economic conditions, farmland prices, farmers’ debt levels and access to financing, interest and exchange rates, labor availability and costs, energy costs and related policies, tax policies, policies related to climate change, and other input costs associated with farming. Other key factors affecting new agricultural equipment sales are the value, age, and level of used equipment, including tractors, harvesting equipment, self-propelled sprayers, hay and forage equipment, and seeding equipment. Weather and climatic conditions also can affect buying decisions of agricultural equipment purchasers. 4 Table of Contents We believe innovations in machinery and technology may influence purchases of agricultural equipment, especially when the agricultural environment is challenging. For example, larger, more productive equipment is well accepted where farmers are striving for more efficiency in their operations to increase profits. Large, cost-efficient, highly mechanized agricultural operations account for an important share of worldwide farm output. These customers are increasingly adopting and integrating precision agricultural technologies like guidance, telematics, automation, and data-driven management in their operations. The large-size agricultural equipment used on such farms has been particularly important to us. A large proportion of the equipment operations’ total agricultural equipment sales in the U.S. and Canada, as well as in many countries outside the U.S. and Canada, are comprised of (1) tractors over 100 horsepower, (2) self-propelled combines, cotton pickers, forage harvesters, and sprayers, and (3) seeding equipment. Agricultural trends, including the production of and demand for renewable fuels, including biofuels, can also impact sales. This growing demand has led to a corresponding increase in the need for agriculturally based feedstocks used in their production, such as corn in the U.S. and Europe and sugar cane in Brazil. This increased demand may increase the demand for agricultural equipment to be used in the production of such crops. In addition, policies and market drivers such as federal mandates requiring renewable fuel blending, and global regulations in regions and countries like Europe and Brazil, are expected to increase demand for renewable fuels. We also rely on the sale of small and mid-size tractors as part of our global business. Customers use these tractors for small and medium-sized farming and in specialty agricultural industries like dairy, livestock, and high value crops (e.g., orchards and vineyards). The majority of our mid-size tractors are manufactured and sold in Europe, while the majority of our small tractors are manufactured and sold in India. Retail sales of lawn and garden tractors, compact utility tractors, residential and commercial mowers, utility vehicles, and golf and turf equipment are influenced by the housing market, weather conditions, consumer spending patterns, and general economic conditions like unemployment, interest rates, and inflation. Regions. Sales and marketing support for both the PPA and SAT segments is organized around four geographic regions: (1) Africa, Asia, and the Middle East; (2) Europe, and the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS); (3) Latin America and South America; and (4) U.S., Canada, and Australia. The majority of our sales occur in the U.S. and Canada; however, we continue to grow our business and invest in other regions. In June of 2025, we celebrated our 25 th anniversary of operations in Brazil. In 2024, we built a research and development center in Indaiatuba, Brazil dedicated to tropical agriculture and serving our customers in the region. Our growth in Brazil is just one example of deploying capital to areas where we can unlock the greatest value for our customers —a hallmark of our Smart Industrial Operating Model. Seasonality . Seasonal patterns in retail demand for agricultural equipment can result in substantial variations in the volume and mix of products sold to retail customers during the year. In general, retail sales to farmers are based on the timing of planting and harvesting seasons around the globe. Seasonal demand is estimated in advance, and equipment is manufactured in anticipation of such demand to achieve efficient utilization of personnel and facilities throughout the year. The PPA and SAT segments can incur substantial seasonal variations in cash flows to finance production and inventory of agricultural and turf equipment. The segments also incur costs to finance sales to dealers in advance of seasonal demand. For certain equipment, we offer early order programs, which can include incentives to retail customers who place orders well in advance of the use season. Production schedules are based, in part, on these early order programs; however, during periods of high demand, some factories may still produce after the use season. New combines, cotton harvesting equipment, planters and tillage equipment, and sprayers are sold under early order programs, with waivers of retail finance charges available to customers who take delivery of machines during non-use seasons. In Australia, Canada, and the U.S., there are typically several used equipment trade-in transactions that take place in connection with most new agricultural equipment sales. To provide support to our dealers in these countries for carrying and ultimately selling this used inventory to retail customers, we provide these dealers with pools of funds awarded as a percentage of the dealer price for eligible new equipment sales at the time of the new equipment settlement. Retail demand for turf and utility equipment is normally higher in the second and third fiscal quarters based on weather, turf maintenance needs, landscaping projects, and sports and recreational facilities preparation. We have pursued a strategy of building and shipping such equipment as close to retail demand as possible. Consequently, to increase asset turnover and reduce the average level of field inventories throughout the year, production and shipment schedules of these product lines are normally proportionately higher in the second and third fiscal quarters of each year, corresponding closely to the seasonal pattern of retail sales. 5 Table of Contents Construction & Forestry Our CF segment is committed to meeting the need for smart and more sustainable solutions to help our customers meet industry challenges, including jobsite safety, a shortage of skilled labor, volatile input costs, reducing rework, maximizing uptime, and minimizing their environmental footprint. To address these challenges, we have delivered a portfolio of construction, roadbuilding, and forestry products with precision technology solutions. Our smart solutions such as SmartWeigh™, Smart Grade™, machine and system automation, and the John Deere Operations Center™, are designed to allow customers to complete more functions with fewer inputs, reduce rework and guesswork, and transform data into insights to allow for better decisions. Obstacle detection solutions such as SmartDetect™ supplement operator visibility on the jobsite through a combination of cameras, radar, and machine learning. Additionally, we plan to deliver hybrid-electric and battery electric equipment solutions to help customers reduce tailpipe emissions without sacrificing power and performance. In addition to creating solutions for the challenges mentioned above, our CF training team is providing comprehensive sales, technical, parts, and operator training for dealers and customers so that the features and technologies of our solutions are understood and utilized with the goal of maximizing customer productivity, jobsite safety, and uptime. Our construction products include excavators, motor graders, crawler dozers and loaders, wheel loaders, backhoes, and articulated dump trucks. Our compact construction products include skid steers, compact excavators, compact wheel loaders, and compact track loaders. Our Wirtgen roadbuilding products include milling machines, recyclers, slipform pavers, surface miners, asphalt pavers, compactors, tandem and static rollers, mobile crushers and screens, and mobile and stationary asphalt plants. The Wirtgen brand also provides a technology stack aimed at allowing customers to make smarter and more sustainable decisions. Technology offerings include Wirtgen Performance Tracker, Mill Assist, Level Pro, Vögele Roadscan, Smart Compact, WITOS Paving, Spective Connect, AutoTrac™, John Deere Connected Support™, and John Deere Operations Center™. The construction, compact construction, and Wirtgen products also include related attachments and service parts. In forestry, our primary products include skidders, wheeled and tracked feller bunchers, forwarders, knuckleboom loaders, wheeled and tracked harvesters, swing machines, and precision forestry technology solutions such as Intelligent Boom Control, TimberMatic™ maps, and TimberManager™ —a web-based solution allowing customers to follow progress on the jobsite . These solutions allow customers to closely track jobsite progress and provide visibility into fleet location, utilization, performance, and maintenance information. We have a number of initiatives in the rent-to-rent, or short-term rental, market for construction, earthmoving, roadbuilding, and material handling equipment. These include specially designed rental programs for our dealers and expanded cooperation with major national equipment rental companies. We own retail forestry sales operations in Australia, Brazil, Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. In addition, the Wirtgen Group sells its products primarily through company-owned sales and service subsidiaries in many markets worldwide (most significantly in Europe, India, and Australia). In most other geographies, we sell through an independent dealer channel. The prevailing levels of residential, commercial, and public construction, investment in infrastructure, and the condition of the forestry products industry influence retail sales of our construction, roadbuilding, and forestry equipment. General economic conditions, interest rates, uncertainty related to trade policies, government spending, the availability of credit, and certain commodity prices, such as those applicable to oil and gas, pulp, paper, and saw logs, also influence sales. In addition to John Deere brand names, the table below provides a list of CF products and their associated brand names: PRODUCT BRAND NAME Roadbuilding Equipment Wirtgen, Vögele, Hamm, Kleemann, Benninghoven, Ciber Forestry Attachments Waratah Competition The equipment operations sell products and services in a variety of competitive global and regional markets. The principal competitive factors in all markets include product performance, technology features, innovation, quality, distribution, sustainability, financing, customer service, and value. John Deere’s brand recognition is a competitive factor in North America and many other parts of the world. The agricultural equipment industry continues to change and is becoming even more competitive through the emergence and global expansion of many competitors. The competitive environment for the agriculture and turf operations includes some global competitors, such as AGCO Corporation, CLAAS KGaA mbH, CNH Industrial N.V., Kubota Tractor Corporation, and The Toro Company. 6 Table of Contents These competitors have varying numbers of product lines competing with our products and each has varying degrees of regional focus. Additional competition within the agricultural equipment industry has come from a variety of short-line and specialty manufacturers, as well as local or regional competitors, with differing manufacturing and marketing methods. As technology increasingly enables enhanced productivity in agriculture, the industry is also attracting non-traditional competitors, including technology-focused companies and start-up ventures. Our forestry and roadbuilding businesses operate globally. The construction business operates in competitive markets in North and South America, as well as other global markets. Global competitors of the CF segment include Caterpillar Inc., CNH Industrial N.V., Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and its subsidiary Doosan Bobcat Inc., Fayat Group, GOMACO Corporation, Hitachi Construction Machinery, Komatsu Ltd., Kubota Tractor Corporation, LGMG, Liugong, Ponsse Plc, SANY Group Co., Ltd., SDLG, Terex, Tigercat Industries Inc., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of Volvo Group AB), and XCMG. Parts and Services The quality and timely availability of our parts and services are important for each of our equipment operations, as they are elements to overall customer satisfaction and our customers’ purchasing decisions. We supply parts, many of which are proprietary, to support the current product lines as well as products we have sold in the past. We also offer aftersales customer assistance programs that provide a range of maintenance and repair contracts, as well as warranty extension services, to cover a variety of customer needs and to support the equipment’s value over time. Our precision technology is integrated into our equipment as well as offered as aftermarket parts of retrofit solutions through our dealer network and owner support tools sold through our e-commerce John Deere Store. We support our connected machines, which integrate technology with our equipment through our John Deere Operations Center™ with service alerts, operator insights, and predictive repairs and maintenance. Manufacturing and Assembly Our global manufacturing footprint allows us whenever possible to produce our products close to the markets where they are sold. For example, most of our large agricultural equipment is assembled in the U.S. for our U.S. customers. Common manufacturing processes and techniques are used in producing components for PPA, SAT, and CF equipment sold by us and our dealers. The equipment operations also pursue external sales of selected parts that can be manufactured and supplied to third parties on a competitive basis, including engines, power train components, and electronic components. Considerable effort is being dedicated to manufacturing cost optimization through improvements in process, optimization of factories, including product line relocation, product design, advanced manufacturing technology, and supply management and logistics, as well as compensation incentives related to productivity and organizational structure. We are also integrating emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence driven analytics and advanced robotics into our manufacturing processes where appropriate. Our manufacturing, logistics, and scheduling systems are dependent on forecasts of industry volumes and our anticipated share of industry sales. In addition, based on dealer and customer demand, we can adjust our assembly lines to accommodate a wide product mix. See Item 2 “Properties” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about our manufacturing facilities. Research and Development; Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights, and Trade Secrets We make substantial investments in research and development to improve the quality and performance of our products, to develop new products and technologies to meet our customers’ needs, to integrate sustainable solutions into our products, and to comply with government, safety, and engine emissions regulations. Our research and development activities are a vital component in our Smart Industrial Operating Model as customers seek to improve profitability, productivity, and sustainability through technology. Integration of technology into equipment is a persistent market trend, and we continue to capitalize on this market trend. We own a significant number of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and intellectual property licenses related to our products and services and expect the number to grow as we continue to pursue technological innovations. We further our competitive position by filing patent and trademark applications in the U.S. and internationally to protect technology, improvements considered important to the business, and our brand. We believe that our rights under these patents and licenses are important to our operations and competitive position but do not regard any of our businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or family of patents. See Item 1A Risk Factors, “Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risks — Our business could be adversely affected by the infringement or loss of intellectual property rights” for more information. 7 Table of Contents Sales and Distribution Through the U.S. and Canada, we market products to approximately 2,050 independent dealer locations. Of these, approximately 1,600 sell agricultural equipment, while approximately 450 sell construction, earthmoving, material handling, roadbuilding, compact construction, and/or forestry equipment. In addition, roadbuilding equipment is sold at approximately 100 roadbuilding-only locations that may carry products that compete with our construction, earthmoving, material handling, and/or forestry equipment. Turf equipment is sold at most John Deere agricultural equipment locations, a few construction and forestry locations, and about 260 turf-only locations. In addition, certain lawn and garden and compact construction products are sold through The Home Depot and Lowe’s. Outside the U.S. and Canada, our agriculture and turf equipment is sold to distributors and dealers for resale in over 100 countries. Sales and administrative offices are located in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom. Turf equipment sales outside the U.S. and Canada occur primarily in Western Europe and Australia. Construction, earthmoving, material handling, and forestry equipment is sold to distributors and dealers primarily by sales offices located in Australia, Brazil, Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. Some of these dealers are independently owned while we own others. Roadbuilding equipment is sold directly to retail customers and independent distributors and dealers for resale. The Wirtgen Group operates company-owned sales and service subsidiaries in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, Singapore, South Africa, Sweden, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom. The equipment operations operate centralized parts distribution warehouses in the U.S., Brazil, and Germany in coordination with regional parts depots and distribution centers in Argentina, Australia, Canada, China, India, Mexico, South Africa, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. We market engines, power trains, and electronic components worldwide through select sales branches or directly to regional and global original equipment manufacturers and independently owned engine distributors. We provide our dealers with volume sales incentives, demonstration programs, and other advertising support to assist sales. We design our sales programs, including retail financing incentives, and our policies for maintaining parts and services availability with product warranties to enhance our dealers’ competitive position. Raw Materials We source raw materials, manufactured components, and replacement parts for our equipment, engines, and other products from leading suppliers globally. These materials and components include a variety of steel products, metal castings, forgings, plastics, hydraulics, electronics, and ready-to-assemble components made to certain specifications. We also source various goods and services used for production, logistics, operations, and research and development. We develop and maintain sourcing strategies for our purchased materials and emphasize long-term supplier relationships at the core of these strategies. We use a variety of agreements with suppliers intended to drive innovation, maximize availability and delivery of raw materials and components, help manage costs on a globally competitive basis, protect our intellectual property, and minimize other supply-related risks. We are focused on increasing the resiliency of our supply chain and monitoring supply chain risks to minimize the likelihood of business disruptions caused by the supply base, including as a result of supplier financial viability, capacity, business continuity, labor availability, quality, delivery, cybersecurity, weather-related events, natural disasters, geo-political instability, and trade policies. We have implemented mitigation efforts to minimize the impact of potential and actual supply chain disruptions on our customers. Examples include working with the supply base to prioritize allocations to improve material availability, multi-sourcing selected parts and materials, entering long-term contracts for some critical components, and using alternative freight carriers to expedite delivery. Backlog Orders The dollar amount of backlog orders as of November 2, 2025, was approximately $4.0 billion for the PPA segment and $1.9 billion for the SAT segment, compared with $5.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, at October 27, 2024. Backlog orders decreased as demand has declined. The agriculture and turf backlog are generally highest in the second and third quarters due to seasonal buying trends in these industries. The dollar amount of backlog orders for the CF segment was approximately $3.8 billion at November 2, 2025, compared with $2.2 billion at October 27, 2024 as planned production levels increase in line with retail demand. Backlog orders for equipment operations include all orders deemed to be firm as of the referenced date . 8 Table of Contents Financial Services U.S. and Canada. The financial services segment primarily provides and administers financing for retail purchases from our dealers of new equipment manufactured by our equipment operations, as well as used equipment taken in trade for this equipment. The Company and John Deere Construction & Forestry Company (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) are referred to as the “sales companies.” John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation), a U.S. financial services subsidiary, generally purchases retail installment sales and loan contracts (retail notes) from the sales companies. In Canada, John Deere Financial Inc., a Canadian financial services subsidiary, purchases and finances retail notes acquired by John Deere Canada ULC, our Canadian sales company. The terms of retail notes and the basis on which the financial services operations acquire retail notes from the sales companies are governed by agreements with the sales companies. The financial services segment also finances and services revolving charge accounts, in most cases acquired from and offered through third-party merchants in the agricultural and turf markets. Additionally, the financial services operations provide wholesale financing to dealers of our agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment (wholesale notes), primarily to finance inventories of equipment for those dealers. The various financing options offered by the financial services operations are designed to enhance sales of our products and generate financing income for the financial services operations. In the U.S. and Canada, certain subsidiaries included in the financial services segment offer extended equipment warranties. Retail notes acquired by the sales companies are immediately sold to the financial services operations. The equipment operations are the financial services operations’ major source of business, although many retail purchasers of our products finance their purchases outside our organization through a variety of sources, including commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. The financial services operations offer retail leases to equipment users in the U.S. and a small number of leases are executed with units of local governments. Leases are usually written for periods ranging from less than one year to seven years and typically contain an option permitting the customer to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term. Retail leases also are offered in a generally similar manner to customers in Canada. The financial services operations’ terms for financing equipment retail sales (other than smaller items financed with unsecured revolving charge accounts) generally provide for retention of a security interest in the equipment financed. Finance charges are sometimes waived for specified periods or reduced on certain John Deere products sold or leased in advance of the season of use or in other sales promotions. The financial services operations generally receive compensation from the sales companies at approximate market interest rates for periods during which finance charges are waived or reduced on the retail notes or leases. The cost is accounted for as a deduction in arriving at net sales by the equipment operations. We have an agreement with Capital Corporation to make payments to Capital Corporation such that its consolidated ratio of earnings to fixed charges is not less than 1.05 to 1 for any four consecutive fiscal quarterly period. We also have committed to continuing to own, directly or through one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries, at least 51% of the voting shares of capital stock of Capital Corporation and to maintain Capital Corporation’s consolidated tangible net worth at not less than $50. Our obligations to make payments to Capital Corporation under this agreement are independent of whether Capital Corporation is in default on its indebtedness, obligations, or other liabilities. Further, our obligations under the agreement are not measured by the amount of Capital Corporation’s indebtedness, obligations, or other liabilities. Our obligations to make payments under this agreement are expressly stated not to be a guaranty of any specific indebtedness, obligation, or liability of Capital Corporation and are enforceable only by or in the name of Capital Corporation. As of November 2, 2025, we were in compliance with all of our obligations, and no payments were required under this agreement in fiscal year 2025 or fiscal year 2024. As of November 2, 2025, we indirectly owned 100% of the voting shares of Capital Corporation’s capital stock and Capital Corporation’s consolidated tangible net worth was $5,929.8. Outside the U.S. and Canada. The financial services operations also offer financing, primarily for our products, in Argentina, Australia, India, Mexico, New Zealand, and in several other countries in Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. In certain markets, financing is offered through cooperation agreements or joint ventures with other financial institutions. For example, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2025, we completed a transaction with a Brazilian bank, Banco Bradesco S.A. (Bradesco), for Bradesco to invest and become 50% owner of our subsidiary in Brazil, Banco John Deere S.A. The way the financial services operations offer financing is affected by a variety of country-specific laws, regulations, and customs, including those governing property rights and debtor obligations, which are subject to change, and which may introduce greater risk to the financial services operations. The financial services operations also offer to select customers and dealers credit enhanced international export financing primarily for the purchase of our products. Additional information on the financial services operations is provided in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (MD&A) section in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Table of Contents Environmental Matters We are subject to a variety of local, state, and federal environmental laws and regulations in the U.S., as well as the environmental laws and regulations of other countries in which we conduct business. In the event of noncompliance, we could be subject to substantial fines and other penalties. Compliance with these laws and regulations adds to the cost of our production operations and compliance with emissions regulations adds to the cost of our products. In fiscal year 2025, compliance with environmental controls applicable to us did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. At this time, we do not expect to incur material capital expenditures related to environmental controls during fiscal year 2026. The U.S., the European Union (EU), India, and other governments throughout the world have enacted, and continue to enact, laws and regulations to reduce off-road engine emissions. Compliance with these regulations requires significant investment in the development of new engine technologies and after-treatment systems. Governments also are implementing laws regulating products across their life cycles, including raw material sourcing and the storage, production, packaging, distribution, sale, use, and disposal of products at their end of life. These laws and regulations include requirements to develop less hazardous chemical substances and products, right-to-know, restriction of hazardous substances, and product take-back laws. We continually evaluate, clean-up, or conduct corrective action at a limited number of sites. We cannot guarantee that these matters or other expenses or liabilities we may incur in connection with any noncompliance with environmental laws, regulations, or the clean-up of any properties, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or competitive position. We continue to monitor and review developing sustainability frameworks, standards, and global regulations, such as the European Union’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), and California’s SB-253 (Climate Corporate Data Accountability Act) and SB-261 (Climate-Related Financial Risk Act). With respect to properties and businesses that have been or will be acquired, we conduct due diligence into potential exposure to environmental liabilities but cannot be certain that we have identified, or will identify, all adverse environmental conditions. Government Regulations We are subject to a wide variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. These laws and regulations include a range of trade, antitrust, product, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, data protection and privacy, foreign exchange, tax, labor and employment, environmental, health and safety, telecommunications, intellectual property, human rights, and other laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations requires the dedication of time and effort of our employees, as well as financial resources. In fiscal year 2025, compliance with the regulations applicable to us did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. At this time, we do not expect to incur material capital expenditures related to compliance with regulations during fiscal year 2026. Additional information about the impact of government regulations on our business is included in Item 1A, “Risk Factors–Strategic Risks” and “Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risks.” Human Capital Management Our employees are guided by a simple principle: We run so life can leap forward. Our approach to human capital management is rooted in our core values: Integrity, Quality, Humanity, Commitment, and Innovation, which serve as the foundation for our workforce’s actions and decisions. These values are embedded within our Global Performance Management (GPM) program. Through GPM we foster a culture of continuous feedback and ongoing improvement. Employees At November 2, 2025, we had approximately 73,100 employees, of which approximately 32,500 were full-time production employees. We had 27,000 total employees in the U.S. of which approximately 11,600 were full-time production employees. We also retain consultants, independent contractors, and temporary and part-time workers. We are an equal opportunity employer committed to providing a workplace free of harassment and discrimination. Unions are certified as bargaining agents for approximately 77% of our U.S. production and maintenance employees. Approximately 7,600 of our active U.S. production and maintenance workers are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto Workers (UAW), with an expiration date of November 1, 2027. A small number of U.S. production employees are represented by the 10 Table of Contents International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM). Collective bargaining agreements covering our employees in the U.S. expire between 2025 and 2027. Unions also represent the majority of employees at our manufacturing facilities outside the U.S. There is no guarantee that we will be able to renew collective bargaining agreements or whether such agreements will be on terms satisfactory to us. For further discussion, see Item 1A Risk Factors “Talent Risks—Our business may be adversely affected by any disruptions caused by union activities.” Code of Conduct We are committed to conducting business in accordance with the highest ethical standards. We require all employees to complete training on our Code of Business Conduct. The Code provides specific guidance to all our employees outlining how they can and must uphold and strengthen the integrity that has defined John Deere since our founding. In addition, we maintain a global compliance hotline to report concerns of potential violations of the Code, global policies, or the law. Training and Development As our business segments evolve, we need a workforce equipped to address new opportunities and challenges. We offer our employees upskill training, career planning, and leadership development to better prepare our employees for future career opportunities at Deere. We have tools and solutions for continuous learning and career development, along with training programs that are tailored to different geographic regions and job functions. Examples of such training include technical operation of equipment, robotics, automation, equipment assembly, and interpersonal skills for establishing relationships with customers and dealers. Compensation and Benefits Our total rewards are intended to be competitive, meet the varied needs of our global workforce, and reinforce our values. We are committed to providing comprehensive and competitive pay and benefits to our employees. We continue to invest in employees through growth, development, and well-being initiatives. Our work environment is designed to promote innovation, well-being, and reward performance. Our total rewards for employees include a variety of components that aim to support our employees in building a strong financial future, including competitive market-based pay and comprehensive benefits. In addition to earning base pay, eligible employees are compensated for their contributions to our goals with both short-term cash incentives and long-term equity-based incentives. Eligible full-time employees in the U.S. have access to medical, dental, and vision plans; savings and retirement plans; parental leave and paid time off; and mental health and wellness services. Programs and benefits differ internationally for a variety of reasons, such as local legal requirements, market practices, and negotiations with works councils, trade unions, and other employee representative bodies. Health and Safety We strive to achieve safety excellence through increased focus on injury prevention, leading indicators, risk reduction, and health and safety management systems. We have made progress on implementing best practices and leading indicators for enabling employee safety over recent years with our Health and Safety Management System. We utilize a safety balanced scorecard, which includes leading and lagging indicators, and is designed to enable continuous measurement of safety performance and drive continuous improvement. Leading indicators include completion of risk reduction projects targeting highest factory risks as well as safety engagements with employees. Lagging indicators include total recordable incident rate, number of Potential Serious Injuries or Fatalities (PSIF) or Serious Injuries or Fatalities (SIF) events, and higher order of control corrective actions from PSIF and SIF events. Leading and lagging indicators are tracked by most of our manufacturing facilities and internally reported. In fiscal year 2025, we reported a total recordable incident rate of 1.45, a safety metric used to measure the number of recordable incidents per 100 full-time employees per year; and a lost time frequency rate of 0.61, a safety metric used to measure the number of lost time incidents per 100 full-time employees. Employee Engagement We continue to build and sustain a workplace where all employees feel valued, respected, and inspired to do their best work every day. We gather feedback from our employees through a variety of channels throughout the year, such as surveys, focus groups, and conversations regarding continuous improvement. We build on our higher purpose, our core values, and our business strategy in a way that engages, inspires, and recognizes our workforce so they can support our customers in solving their biggest challenges. 11 Table of Contents Available Information Our internet address is http://www.deere.com . We make the following reports filed by us available, free of charge, on our website under the “Investors” section, including any amendments thereto, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed or furnished with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC or Commission) : ● Annual Report on Form 10-K, ● Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and ● Current Reports on Form 8-K. These filings are also available at a website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . The information contained on our website is not included in, nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 12 Table of Contents INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following are our executive officers as of December 2, 2025. All executive officers are elected or appointed by the Board of Directors and hold office until the meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders each year. ​ ​ ​ Name (Age) ​ Present Deere Position (Effective Date) ​ Business Experience (Effective Date) John C. May (56) ​ Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and President (2020) ​ - Chief Executive Officer and President (2019) - President and Chief Operating Officer (2019) Joshua A. Jepsen (48) ​ Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2022) ​ - Deputy Financial Officer (2022) - Director, Investor Relations (2018) Ryan D. Campbell (51) ​ President, Worldwide Construction & Forestry and Power Systems (2022) ​ - Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2019) Jahmy J. Hindman (50) ​ Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer (2023) ​ - Chief Technology Officer (2020) Rajesh Kalathur (57) ​ President, John Deere Financial, and Chief Information Officer (2022) ​ - President, John Deere Financial and Senior Vice President, Global Information Technology and Chief Financial Officer (2022) - President, John Deere Financial, and Chief Information Officer (2019) Deanna M. Kovar (47) ​ President, Worldwide Agriculture & Turf Division, Production & Precision Ag, Sales and Marketing Regions of the Americas and Australia (2025) ​ - President, Worldwide Agriculture & Turf Division, Small Ag & Turf, Sales and Marketing Regions of Europe, CIS, Asia, and Africa (2023) - Vice President, Production Systems, Production & Precision Ag (2023) - Vice President, Production Systems (2020) Felecia J. Pryor (51) ​ Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer (2022) ​ - Executive Vice President & Chief Human Resources Officer, BorgWarner Inc. (2022) - Global Vice President Human Resources, BorgWarner, Inc. - Morse Systems (2019) Cory J. Reed (55) ​ President, Lifecycle Solutions, Supply Management, and Customer Success (2025) ​ - President, Worldwide Agriculture & Turf Division, Production & Precision Ag, Sales and Marketing Regions of the Americas and Australia (2020) Justin R. Rose (46) ​ President, Worldwide Agriculture & Turf Division, Small Ag & Turf, Sales and Marketing Regions of Europe, CIS, Asia, and Africa (2025) ​ - President, Lifecycle Solutions, Supply Management, and Customer Success (2022) - Senior Partner and Managing Director, Boston Consulting Group (BCG) (2020) Kellye L. Walker (59) ​ Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary, and Chief Legal Officer, Global Law Services & Regulatory Affairs (2024) ​ - Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, and Corporate Secretary, Eastman Chemical Company (2020) ​ ​ 13 Table of Contents ​ ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risks are considered material to our business based upon current knowledge, information, and assumptions. This discussion of risk factors should be considered closely in conjunction with the MD&A, including the risks and uncertainties described in the Forward-Looking Statements, and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These risk factors and other forward-looking statements relate to future events, expectations, trends, and operating periods. They involve factors that are subject to change and important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Some of these risks and uncertainties could affect particular lines of business, while others could affect all our businesses. Although the risks are organized by headings and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Forward-Looking Statements are not the only risks we face. GEOPOLITICAL AND MACROECONOMIC RISKS Our financial results largely depend upon the agricultural market business cycle, as well as general economic conditions and outlook. Negative conditions in the agricultural industry and general economy cause weakened demand for our equipment and services, limit access to funding, and result in higher funding costs. Our success largely depends on the vitality of the agricultural industry. Historically, the agricultural industry has been cyclical and subject to a variety of economic and other factors; consequently, sales of agricultural equipment are also cyclical and generally reflect the economic health of the agricultural industry. The economic health of the agricultural industry is affected by numerous factors, including farm income, international trade, farmland values, debt levels, and financing costs. In addition, farm income is influenced by commodity and protein prices, world grain stocks, acreage available and planted, crop yields, agricultural product demand, soil conditions, farm input costs, government policies and support. Changes in government farm programs and policies can influence demand for agricultural equipment as well as create unequal competition for multinational companies relative to domestic companies. Downturns in the agricultural industry due to these and other factors, which could vary by market, have resulted in decreases in demand for agricultural equipment, adversely affecting our business and financial performance. The demand for our products and services depends on the fundamentals in the markets in which we operate and can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by high unemployment, high interest rates, cautious consumer spending, inflation, lower corporate earnings, and lower business investment, all of which affect farmers’ income and sentiment. In fiscal year 2025, unfavorable market conditions resulted in lower sales volumes, greater reliance on sales incentives, and elevated receivable write-offs. We expect certain of these conditions to persist in fiscal year 2026. Changes in the economic environment and the agricultural market business cycle are driven by factors outside of our control, and as a result we cannot reasonably foresee when these conditions will fully subside. Sustained general negative economic conditions and outlook could also affect construction and housing activities, and energy prices and demand, which could decrease demand for construction and turf equipment and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Uncertain or negative outlook with respect to pervasive U.S. fiscal issues as well as general economic conditions and outlook, such as market volatility, inflation, or interest rate changes, have caused and could continue to cause significant changes in market liquidity conditions. Such changes could impact access to funding and associated funding costs, which could reduce our earnings and cash flows. We face risks associated with international, national, and regional trade laws, regulations, and policies that could materially impair our profitability. International, national, and regional laws, regulations, and policies directly or indirectly related to or restricting the import and export of our products, services, and technology, or those of our customers or suppliers, or for the benefit of favored industries or sectors, have harmed our global business. We are subject to various trade regulatory risks including, but not limited to, the following: ● The imposition of tariffs and retaliatory tariffs has impacted, and we expect will continue to impact, the sourcing of parts and components, the cost and profitability of manufacturing operations, and our ability to ship, import, and export our products. During fiscal year 2025, new tariffs were imposed in the U.S. for imports from a broad range of countries and materials. Several countries also implemented or proposed retaliatory tariffs on imports from the U.S., as well as other barriers to trade. As a net exporter of agriculture and turf equipment from the U.S., these trade policies impact us. Nearly 80% of our domestic sales are assembled in the U.S., with the remaining products imported primarily from Europe, Mexico, India, and Japan. During fiscal year 2025, incremental import tariffs adversely affected the cost of our products and components and may continue to do so in 2026. In addition, retaliatory tariffs by regions outside the U.S., currently in effect or adopted in the future, may impact the prices of our 14 Table of Contents exported products and the profit realized from these exports. The direct impact of incremental tariffs incurred by us in 2025 was approximately $600, excluding the impact of tariffs on our suppliers and market demand. On November 5, 2025, the United States Supreme Court heard oral arguments on tariffs imposed under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA). The court may provide tariff relief and the potential recovery of amounts previously paid. We are monitoring developments in this case and its impact on our future financial statements and business. ● Changing U.S. export controls and sanctions on various foreign countries and on various parties could affect our ability to manufacture our products in foreign jurisdictions, collect receivables, provide aftermarket warranty support for our equipment and sell products, and could otherwise impact our reputation and business. ● Restricted access to global markets could impair our ability to export goods and services from various manufacturing locations around the world and limit the ability to access raw materials and high-quality parts and components at competitive prices on a timely basis. ● Trade restrictions could impede those in developing countries from achieving a higher standard of living, which could negatively impact our future growth opportunities arising from increasing global demand for food, fuel, and infrastructure. ● Policies impacting exchange rates and commodity prices, or those limiting the export or import of commodities, could have a material adverse effect on the international flow of agricultural and other commodities that may result in a corresponding negative effect on the demand for agricultural and forestry equipment in many areas of the world. Our agricultural equipment sales could be harmed by such policies because farm income influences sales of agricultural equipment around the world. ● If our business partners were to incur regulatory or judicial action, it could impact our ability to operate certain solutions abroad, or our connectivity to rural farmers. Our international operations expose us to risks and events beyond our control in countries in which we operate. Efforts to grow our businesses depend in part upon access to and developing and maintaining market share and profitability in additional geographic markets, including, but not limited to, Argentina, Brazil, CIS, China, India, and South Africa. Particularly, we have invested significant resources to grow our operations in Brazil, and i n 2024, we built a research and development center in Indaiatuba. We may not realize the benefits from our investment in Brazil or in other regions and may be unable to grow our market share for a variety of reasons. For example, some countries where we operate have greater political and economic volatility and greater infrastructure vulnerability than others. There are various risks associated with our global footprint, including, but not limited to, the following: ● economic and political instability, including war or armed conflict, changes in government policies, expropriation, nationalization, and other political, economic, or social developments, ● increased tariffs, trade barriers, trade agreements, and other restrictions on international trade, ● supply chain disruptions, including, as a result of natural disasters, transportation disruptions, and geopolitical events, ● multiple and potentially conflicting laws, regulations, and policies that are subject to change, along with the complexity and cost of compliance, ● currency fluctuations which can affect the value of our foreign currency revenues, expenses, and cash flows, ● inadequate intellectual property protections in foreign jurisdictions that could result in the unauthorized use or infringement of our intellectual property, ● adverse consumer sentiment for non-local products, ● local labor market conditions, and ● lack of brand recognition in our emerging markets. The occurrence of one or more of these events has, from time to time, impacted, and may in the future impact, our business in a variety of ways, including reducing demand for our products, increasing costs, limiting our ability to operate in certain jurisdictions, disrupting our ability to deliver products to customers on time and at competitive prices, subjecting us to fines, penalties, and sanctions, harming our competitive position, devaluation of assets, and impacting our financials. Please also refer to the risk factors in the “Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risks” section below that address our legal and regulatory risks associated with our international operations. 15 Table of Contents Changing worldwide demand for food and different forms of renewable energy can impact the price of farm commodities and consequently the demand for our equipment. This could result in higher research and development costs related to changing machine fuel requirements. Changing worldwide demand for farm outputs to meet the world’s growing food and renewable energy demands, driven in part by government policies, including those related to climate change, and a growing world population, is likely to result in fluctuating agricultural commodity prices, which directly affect sales of agricultural equipment. Lower agricultural commodity prices directly affect farm incomes, which negatively affect sales of agricultural equipment and result in higher credit losses. While higher commodity prices benefit our crop-producing agricultural equipment customers, they could result in greater feed costs for dairy and livestock producers, which in turn may result in lower levels of equipment purchased by those customers. International buyers can also change the source of imported agricultural products, such as corn and soy, from the U.S. to other countries, impacting the profitability of our customers and demand for our equipment. In addition, changing energy demand may cause farmers to change the types or quantities of the crops they raise, with corresponding changes in equipment demands. The growing demand for biofuels has led to a corresponding increased demand for agriculturally based feedstocks used in their production, such as corn in the U.S. and Europe and sugar cane in Brazil. This increased demand may increase the demand for agricultural equipment to be used in the production of such crops. However, the economic feasibility of biofuels can be impacted by the price of oil. As the price of oil falls, biofuels become a less attractive alternative energy source, and as a result, there is uncertainty with respect to any benefits we may realize with respect to our investments related to renewable energy. Furthermore, changes in governmental policies regulating fuel utilization, including biofuel, affect commodity demand and commodity prices, demand for our diesel-fueled equipment, and result in higher research and development costs related to equipment fuel standards. OPERATIONAL AND MANUFACTURING RISKS Restructuring, rationalization, and relocation of manufacturing facilities may cause capacity constraints, inventory fluctuations, and other issues. The rationalization or restructuring of our manufacturing facilities, including relocating production or closing facilities, requires significant investment and places temporary constraints on our ability to produce the quantity of products necessary to fill orders, and thereby complete sales in a timely manner. In addition, decisions regarding the rationalization, restructuring or relocation of facilities, and any similar actions, could also subject us to additional or new tariffs, reputational risks, and other issues relating to the importation of products. In 2024, we shifted production of small-frame skid steer loaders and compact track loaders to Mexico. As a result, these products became subject to additional tariffs on imports from Mexico in 2025. Even though we are taking actions to qualify for an exemption under the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) to mitigate the elevated costs, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such qualification. Furthermore, our manufacturing processes are dependent on water. Increasing competition for water resources, regulatory restrictions on water, and environmental changes can lead to water scarcity. Any significant reduction in water availability could disrupt our manufacturing processes, increase our operational costs, and limit our ability to meet customer demand. Inability to accurately forecast customer demand for products and services, and to adequately manage inventory, could adversely affect our operating results. To ensure adequate inventory supply, we must forecast inventory needs and expenses and place orders sufficiently in advance with suppliers and contract manufacturers. These forecasts are based on estimates of future demand for products and services. Failure to accurately forecast our needs results in unmet market demand, parts shortages, manufacturing delays or inefficiencies, increased costs, or excess inventory. Our ability to accurately forecast demand could be affected by many factors, including changes in customer demand for our products and services, used equipment inventory outstanding, changes in demand for the products and services of competitors, unanticipated changes in agricultural and general market conditions, and the weakening of economic conditions or customer confidence in future economic conditions. In 2025, elevated used inventory levels in late model-year machines impacted demand for our products in North America resulting in lower price realization and actions to reduce our inventory level. If the forecasts used to manage inventory are not accurate, we may experience excess inventory levels, shortage of available products, or reduced manufacturing efficiencies. 16 Table of Contents Changes in the availability and price of certain raw materials, components, and whole goods have resulted and could result in disruptions to the supply chain causing production disruptions, increased costs, and lower profits from sales of our products. Our business relies on a complex global supply chain, and any disruptions can impact our operations. We have experienced changes in the availability and prices of raw materials, components, whole goods, and freight over the past several years. Past global logistics network challenges have resulted in delays, shortages of key manufacturing components, increased order backlogs, increased transportation costs, and production inefficiencies from a higher number of partially completed machines in inventory, which in the past have increased our overall production and overhead costs. Increases in such costs have adversely affected our business operations. W e anticipate fluctuations in our supply chain due to ongoing geopolitical and economic uncertainty , and regulatory and policy instability, including import tariffs and trade agreements. For example, certain of our products, including motors, batteries, and other components, rely on rare earth minerals for their manufacturing, of which a significant majority are sourced from China. The inability to obtain export permits for rare earth minerals could have a detrimental effect on our business. The se complications have the potential to significantly increase production and logistics costs, including additional research and development costs for designing alternative solutions, and therefore would have a detrimental effect on the profitability of the business. Rapid changes and growing complexity in trade policies may also affect the ability of customs brokers and logistics providers to timely process imported products, which could result in delays, higher logistics costs, and production disruptions. The financial stability of our suppliers can also impact the continuity of our supply chain. A number of our suppliers are facing higher prices due to inflation, increased tariffs or otherwise. If one or more of our suppliers continue to encounter financial hardships , delivery setbacks, or other performance-related difficulties, we may be unable to fulfill our obligations to customers. Furthermore, if any of the raw materials critical to our manufacturing become unavailable to our suppliers, or are only accessible at significantly higher costs, including due to increased tariffs or trade restrictions, or are affected by quality problems or defects, our ability to deliver certain products on schedule or within budget could be compromised. Significant disruptions to the supply chain resulting from shortages of raw materials, components, and whole goods have and could continue to adversely affect our ability to meet commitments to our customers. Examples of such disruptions include: ● work interruption or union strikes by employees of suppliers, ● reliance on single source suppliers, or suppliers that are proprietary in nature that cannot be replaced expeditiously, and ● natural disasters, pandemics, or other unforeseen events can disrupt the flow of materials. Furthermore, if our customers are unwilling to accept price increases for our products, or if we are unable to offset the increases in costs, raw material costs or shortages could have a material adverse effect on our operational or financial results. Failure by our supply base to use ethical business practices and comply with applicable laws and regulations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operational results. While we conduct due diligence on our suppliers and require their compliance with various policies and contractual covenants, we do not control our suppliers’ business practices. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that our due diligence efforts will reveal that they follow ethical business practices such as fair wage practices and compliance with environmental, safety, labor, human rights, material sourcing, and other laws. Failure to comply could lead us to seek alternative suppliers, which could increase our costs and result in delayed delivery of our products, product shortages, or other disruptions in operations. If our suppliers fail to comply with ethical standards and applicable laws, regulations, safety codes, employment practices, human rights standards, quality standards, environmental standards, production practices, or other obligations, norms, identification and reporting requirements, our reputation and brand could be harmed, and we could be exposed to litigation, investigations, enforcement actions, monetary liability and additional costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Unexpected events have increased and may in the future increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations. The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including war, lack of available natural resources, acts of terrorism, epidemics and pandemics, civil unrest, fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, temperatures outside of normal ranges, floods, and other forms of severe or unusual weather in countries in which we operate, or in which our suppliers are located, have adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events have caused and could cause complete or partial closure of one or more of our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruptions in the supply of component products from some local and international suppliers, and disruption and delay in the transport of products to dealers, 17 Table of Contents end-users, and distribution centers. Existing insurance coverage may not provide protection from all the costs that may arise from such events. The potential physical impacts of weather conditions or climate change on our facilities, suppliers, and customers, and therefore on our business, are uncertain and will be specific to the circumstances developing in various geographic regions. These potential physical effects may adversely affect the demand for our products and the cost, production, sales, and financial performance of our operations. FINANCIAL RISKS Changes in interest rates or market liquidity conditions, as well as changes in government banking, monetary and fiscal policies, could adversely affect our financials and our earnings and/or cash flows. High interest rates can dampen overall economic activity and/or the financial condition of our customers, either or both of which can negatively affect customer demand for our equipment and our customers’ ability to repay us. High interest rates also increase the cost of carrying inventory for our dealers and the cost of financing for end customers. Interest rates in the U.S. have decreased and Brazil remained elevated in 2025. Higher rates and volatility in rates impact us in several ways, primarily affecting the demand for our products, financing spreads for the financial services operations, the value of our investments, and the financial health of our dealers. The markets for our agriculture, turf, and construction products were negatively impacted in 2025 by elevated interest rates and their effect on borrowing costs for our customers. While we strive to match the interest rate characteristics of our financial assets and liabilities, changing interest rates have affected our financing spreads—the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rates we pay for funding—which have affected our earnings. In addition, actions by credit rating agencies, such as downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks, can affect the availability and cost of funding for us and can increase our costs of capital and hurt our competitive position. Moreover, policies of the U.S. and other governments regarding banking, monetary, and fiscal policies intended to promote or maintain liquidity, stabilize financial markets, and/or address local deficit or structural economic issues have a material impact on our customers and markets. Our operations and results could also be affected by financial regulatory reform that could, among other things, have an adverse effect on the financial services segment and on our customers by limiting their ability to enter hedging transactions or to finance purchases of our products. Government policies on spending can also affect us, especially the CF segment, due to the impact of government spending on infrastructure development. Our operations, including those outside of the U.S., may also be affected by non-U.S. regulatory reforms being implemented to further regulate non-U.S. financial institutions and markets. Because the financial services segment provides financing for a significant portion of our sales worldwide, negative economic conditions in the financial industry could materially impact our operations and financial results. Negative economic conditions have an adverse effect on the financial industry in which the financial services segment operates. The financial services segment provides financing for a significant portion of our sales worldwide. The financial services segment is vulnerable to customers and others defaulting on contractual obligations, and has experienced, and may continue to experience write-offs and credit losses that, in some cases, exceed our expectations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as a result of elevated delinquencies. The allowance for credit losses on retail notes and financing lease receivables increased in 2025 primarily due to higher expected losses on agriculture and turf customer accounts as a result of elevated delinquencies and a decline in market conditions. We occasionally grant contractual modifications to customers experiencing financial difficulties. There is no guarantee that customers experiencing financial difficulty will be able to satisfy their obligations in accordance with original or modified terms. As a result, our allowance for credit losses may continue to increase in future periods. The financial services segment’s inability to access funds at cost-effective rates to support our financing activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. The financial services segment’s liquidity and ongoing profitability depend largely on timely access to capital to meet future cash flow requirements and to fund operations and costs associated with engaging in diversified funding activities. The financial services segment may also experience residual value losses that exceed our expectations caused by lower pricing for used equipment and higher-than-expected equipment returns at lease maturity. Changes in tax rates, tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities could have a negative effect on our business. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. Tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax 18 Table of Contents rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretations. If our effective tax rates were to increase, or if the ultimate determination of taxes owed is for an amount more than amounts previously accrued, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. STRATEGIC RISKS We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our Smart Industrial Operating Model and Leap Ambitions. Failure to realize the anticipated benefits of our Smart Industrial Operating Model and related business strategies in production systems, precision technologies, and aftermarket support, as well as failure to have selected a business strategy that aligns with our customers’ needs and market trends, could have an adverse effect on our operational and financial results. Several factors could impact our ability to successfully execute, and to benefit from, our Smart Industrial Operating Model, including, among other things: ● our inability to accurately assess market opportunities and the technology required to address such opportunities, ● falling behind in developing and introducing new technologies, ● customers not seeing the value proposition of the technologies and deciding not to adopt them, ● our inability to holistically provide lifecycle solutions, ● inability to fully monetize technology-based solutions, ● being unable to optimize our capital allocation in connection with the Smart Industrial Operating Model, and ● the adoption of new regulations or policies supporting and/or subsidizing outputs that are inconsistent with our strategy, such as policies that have the effect of encouraging or supporting the use of conventional sources of energy. Similarly, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our Leap Ambitions and related goals within the expected timelines, or at all. As part of our Leap Ambitions, we adopted certain financial and operational goals, which were refined in December 2025. In the future, we may again modify these goals, abandon them or be unable to achieve them for a variety of reasons, some of which may be beyond our control. Examples of such reasons include: ● the evolution of our business strategy, our business model, and our business needs; ● our estimates and assumptions related to efficiency of our products and the adoption of precision technology may not be accurate; in particular, we have experienced slower than expected customer adoption of some of our precision technology solutions, and SaaS subscription services; ● customers may not understand the value proposition of the various SaaS subscription models; ● the time required to build the capabilities and infrastructure to support our SaaS business, which has delayed the timing of realization of the expected benefits; and ● dealers may not be able to effectively establish relationships with customers, maintain those customer relationships, and provide SaaS solutions and support to our customers. The introduction of new products and technologies involves risk, and, from time to time, we may fail to realize their anticipated benefits. We design and manufacture products that incorporate advanced technologies. Many of our products and services are highly engineered and involve sophisticated technologies with related complex manufacturing and systems integration processes. We invest substantial amounts in research and development efforts to pursue advancements in a wide range of technologies, products, and services aimed at meeting the ever-evolving product, and service needs of our customers. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our investments in technology and product design depends on a variety of factors, including: ● the usefulness and competitiveness of our offerings relative to our peers, ● access to radio frequency (RF) spectrum and satellite functionality which enables connectivity for equipment, operations, owners, dealers, and technicians, ● meeting development, production, certification, and regulatory approval schedules, ● adequate intellectual property protections in relevant jurisdictions and our ability to protect our intellectual property, ● achieving cost and production efficiencies, ● availability and quality of product parts and materials, both from our suppliers and internally produced, 19 Table of Contents ● availability of test equipment, ● development of complex software, ● hiring and training of qualified personnel, ● training our dealers and their technicians, ● identification of emerging technological trends, ● compliance requirements regarding data privacy and artificial intelligence, and ● customer acceptance and the pace of adoption of our products and technologies, which with respect to some of our solutions and subscription models, has been slower than we expected. We compete on product performance, innovation, quality, distribution, sustainability, customer service, and price. Aggressive pricing or other strategies of competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing delays, our failure to deliver quality products that meet customer needs, or our failure to price products competitively, adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. To remain competitive, we need to have a thorough understanding of our existing and potential customers on a global basis, particularly in growth markets such as Argentina and Brazil. If we are unable to effectively develop and deliver technology that customers can easily adopt and utilize, customers may not adopt our technology which would adversely impact our business operations and future financial performance. Therefore, our ability to deliver precision technology and expand value-driven solutions is critical to our business success. In addition, artificial intelligence technologies have rapidly developed, and our business may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully integrate the technology into our internal business processes, products, and services in a timely, cost-effective, compliant, and responsible manner. These investments may not produce solutions that provide the desired results for customers’ profitability or sustainability outcomes, impacting our competitive position. From time to time our equipment fails to perform as expected and we have experienced, and may in the future experience, warranty claims, post-sale repairs and recalls, and other consequences. From time to time, we have received warranty claims and have had to perform post-sales repairs or recalls due to our equipment not performing as expected. In such cases, we may also face regulatory requirements and penalties that can impact our ability to develop, market, and sell equipment. These circumstances may result in product delivery delays and claims related to product liability, breach of warranty, and consumer protection. The costs associated with these claims and warranty expenses could be significant. We must manage the cost and risk associated with product warranties, post-sale repairs and recalls, regulatory penalties, and product liability, breach of warranty, and consumer protection claims with respect to our products. We may also be subject to investigations relating to our products by government regulators which may compel us to initiate product recalls or may result in negative public perceptions about the safety of our products, even if we disagree with the regulator’s determination. Such post-sale repairs or recalls, whether voluntary or involuntary, could result in significant expense, supply chain complications, and may harm our brand, business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. We rely on a network of independent dealers to manage the distribution of our products and services. If our dealers are unsuccessful with their sales and business operations, it could have an adverse effect on our overall sales and revenue. We rely on the capability of our dealers to develop and implement effective sales plans to create demand among purchasers for the equipment and related products and services they purchase from us. If our dealers are unsuccessful in these endeavors, we will be unable to increase our sales and revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Our dealers carry inventories of finished products as part of their operations and adjust those inventories based on future needs and market conditions, including the level of used equipment inventory. When the total inventory levels of our dealers are higher than they desire, dealers have postponed equipment purchases from us, and could continue to postpone purchases in the future, which could cause our sales to be lower and negatively impact our results. Similarly, our results could be negatively impacted through the loss of time-sensitive sales if our dealers do not maintain inventory levels sufficient to meet customer demand. In addition, the dealer channel’s ability to support and service new technologies may affect customers’ acceptance and adoption rates of these products. The unavailability of specialized technicians to service our equipment may result in overburdening dealers’ servicing capacity. 20 Table of Contents Furthermore, dealers may exit, or we may seek to terminate relationships with certain dealers if they are unable to meet customer needs. The unplanned loss of any of our dealers could lead to inadequate market coverage or negative customer impressions and may adversely impact our ability to collect receivables and generate new sales that are associated with that dealer. Dealers could also have trouble funding their day-to-day cash flow needs and paying their obligations due to adverse business conditions resulting from negative economic effects or other factors. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures, and divestitures, or these benefits may take longer to realize than expected. From time to time, we make strategic acquisitions and divestitures and participate in joint ventures. Acquisitions and joint ventures we have entered into, or may enter into in the future, may involve significant challenges and risks, including that the acquisitions or joint ventures do not advance our business strategy, or fail to produce satisfactory returns on investment. Other risks include: ● difficulties integrating acquisitions with our operations, applying internal control processes to these acquisitions (including those related to cybersecurity), managing strategic investments, assimilating new capabilities to meet the future needs of our businesses, and/or combining business cultures; ● regulatory or compliance exposure until appropriate processes and controls are implemented; ● integration costs and significant attention from management and personnel; ● failing to realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or joint ventures, or realized benefits being significantly delayed, including because the technologies or products acquired may not be complementary or compatible with our business strategy or product portfolio, may not broaden our market position, product portfolio or footprint, or enhance our ability to deliver value to our customers; and ● due diligence evaluations of potential transactions not identifying all of the business, legal, compliance, and financial risks to accurately estimate the impact of a particular acquisition or joint venture, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from an acquisition target’s previous activities or costs associated with any quality issues with an acquisition target’s products or services. Our reputation and brand could be damaged by negative publicity. Our brand has worldwide recognition and contributes to the success of our business. Our reputation is critical for growing our customer base. Our brand depends on the ability to maintain a positive customer perception of the business. Negative claims or publicity across media channels involving us, our products or services, our culture and values, our stance on environmental, social, and governance topics, customer data, or any of our key employees or suppliers, may damage our reputation and brand image, regardless of whether such claims are accurate. Furthermore, our shareholders, customers, and other stakeholders have evolving, varied and often conflicting expectations regarding our culture, values, and our business, which makes it difficult to achieve a uniform positive perception amongst all stakeholders. Additionally, negative or inaccurate postings, articles, or comments on social media, the internet, or the press about us have generated, and could continue to generate negative publicity that damages the reputation of our brand. For example, we have experienced negative social media campaigns related to our approach to diversity and inclusion, our customers’ right to maintain and safely repair their equipment, including with respect to our Memorandum of Understanding with the American Farm Bureau Federation, reductions in workforce, and production relocation. Further, adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us, or legal proceedings initiated by us, also damages our reputation and brand image, undermining customer confidence, and reducing long-term demand for equipment, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. If the reputation, culture, or image of our brands are damaged, or we receive negative publicity, then our sales and financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. TALENT RISKS Our ability to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified employees could affect our ability to execute our strategy. Our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and attract qualified candidates with the requisite education, background, and experience, as well as our ability to develop, engage, and retain qualified employees. Failure to attract, develop, engage, and retain qualified employees, difficulty in recruiting new employees, perceived or actual erosion of our culture, or inadequate resources to train, integrate, and retain qualified employees, could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, our culture and our values have been important contributors to our success to date and we believe promote a sense of pride and fulfillment in our employees. Failure to preserve our culture or focus on our values could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit talent. 21 Table of Contents While we strive to reduce the impact of the departure of employees, our operations or ability to execute our business strategy may be affected by the loss of employees, including in connection with reductions in workforce. Reductions may adversely affect us as a result of decreased employee morale, the loss of institutional knowledge, the allocation of resources to reorganize and reassign job roles and responsibilities, and the increased risk of litigation from former employees. Our business may be adversely affected by any disruptions caused by union activities. Many of our production and maintenance employees are represented by labor unions under various collective bargaining agreements with different expiration dates. There is no certainty that we will successfully negotiate new agreements with these unions that extend beyond the current expiration dates, or that these new agreements will be on terms that will allow us to be competitive. Our failure to successfully renegotiate labor agreements as they expire has, from time to time led, and could in the future lead, to work stoppages or other disputes with labor unions. Any strike, work stoppage, or other dispute with a labor union distracts management from operating the business, may displace employees from ordinary job positions to fill in vacant positions, may affect our reputation, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, additional employees may choose to join or seek recognition for forming a labor union. If additional employees organize in the future, such employees may threaten and/or engage in work stoppages or organize campaigns. The outcomes from such actions may affect our reputation, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. CYBERSECURITY AND DIGITAL RISKS Security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations and could compromise our information as well as information about our employees, customers, suppliers, and/or dealers, exposing us to liability that could cause our business and reputation to suffer. We rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are managed by third parties, to process, transmit, and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of products within our portfolio, business processes and activities, including supporting our customers’ operations, products and solutions, supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing, and collection of payments from customers and dealers. We use information technology systems to record, process, and summarize financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal, and tax requirements. Additionally, we collect and store confidential data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, and the proprietary business information of our customers, suppliers, and dealers, as well as personal data of our customers and employees in data centers, which are often owned by third parties and maintained on their information technology networks. In particular, the John Deere Operations Center ™, our digital management system that allows customers to access farm and jobsite information through their devices, stores substantial volumes of data at the edge and within cloud environments. This data is used to assist and support our customers’ operations and machines, and to enhance and develop our product offerings, including the development of machine learning, large language models and SaaS products. The secure operation of these information technology networks, and the processing and maintenance of this information, are critical to our business operations and strategy. Despite security measures designed to discover and address potential vulnerabilities, our information technology networks and infrastructure have been and may continue to be vulnerable to: (i) intrusion, (ii) exfiltration of data, (iii) damage, (iv) disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals or foreign state actors, (v) employees’, suppliers’, or dealers’ error or malfeasance, (vi) supply chain compromise, (vii) disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, (viii) power and systems outages, (ix) computer viruses, (x) ransomware or other malware, (xi) telecommunication or utility failures, (xii) terrorist acts, (xiii) natural disasters, (xiv) and other events. Our reliance on cloud-based systems owned by third parties creates particular risks. Because we do not control the underlying infrastructure, we depend on the security and reliability of third-party providers, and any outage, misconfiguration, or loss of data could compromise the integrity of our and our customers’ operations and impair the execution of our business strategy and the achievement of our goals. Although we have not suffered any significant cyber incidents that have resulted in material business impact, we have from time to time been, and expect to continue to be, the target of malicious cyber threat actors. The occurrence of any significant event could compromise our networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, obtained, publicly disclosed, lost, altered, misused, or stolen. Any such access, acquisition, disclosure, alteration, misuse, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, government investigations, liability or regulatory penalties, disruption or shut down of our operations, disruption or shut down of our dealers’ and customers’ operations, and damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, results of 22 Table of Contents operations, and financial condition. Furthermore, as security threats continue to evolve and increase in frequency and sophistication, we may need to invest additional resources to enhance information security. Any unauthorized control or manipulation of our products’ systems could result in a loss of confidence in us and our products. Some of our products include connectivity hardware and software typically used for remote system updates. While we have implemented security measures intended to protect against unauthorized remote access to these products, malicious threat actors have attempted, and may attempt in the future, to gain unauthorized access to such products in order to gain control of the products, change the products’ functionality, user interface, or performance characteristics, interfere with the products’ operations, or gain access to data stored in or generated by the products or to systems to which they connect. In addition, reports of unauthorized access to our products, systems, and data, regardless of their accuracy or reliability, have resulted, and may in the future result, in the perception that the products, systems, or data are vulnerable to malicious or unauthorized modifications. Any unauthorized access to or control of our products or systems, any loss of data, or any perception that products, systems, or data are vulnerable could result in loss of sales based on customers’ loss of confidence in our products, legal claims or proceedings against us, government investigation, liability, or regulatory penalties, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Technical or regulatory limitations may impact our ability to effectively implement automation, autonomy, and artificial intelligence solutions. We utilize and intend to expand our use of automation and machine learning in many of our products, including consumer-facing features, and we leverage generative artificial intelligence in our business processes. For example, we use automation software, digital tools, applications, and analytics on the S7 Series Combines and our See & Spray™ targeted spraying solution. In addition, we maintain the John Deere Operations Center™, which stores substantial volumes of data with respect to our customers’ operations and that we use to support our customers and to develop or enhance our product offerings. While we believe the use of these emerging technologies can present significant benefits, they also create risks and challenges. Data sourcing, technology, integration and process issues, bias in decision-making algorithms, concerns over intellectual property, reputational implications if use becomes controversial, system security concerns, or the protection of privacy could impair the adoption and acceptance of autonomous machine solutions. Additionally, if we are unable to match or surpass the advances of artificial intelligence that our competitors implement for their products or for internal operations, our competitive position could be impacted. Furthermore, any confidential information that is disclosed to a third-party generative artificial intelligence platform could be leaked or disclosed to others, including sensitive information that is used to train the third parties’ model. Additionally, if the data used to train the solution or the content, analyses, or recommendations that the machine learning and intelligence applications assist in producing is deemed to be inaccurate, incomplete, biased or questionable, our brand and reputation may be harmed, and we may be subject to legal liability claims. The development of our own artificial intelligence applications will require additional investment in the development of proprietary systems, models, or datasets, which are complex, costly and could impact the results of our operations. Developing, testing, and deploying these technologies may also increase the cost profile of our products due to the level of investment needed to enable such initiatives. In addition, there is no guarantee that we will be able to develop such applications and execute on the longer-term aspects of our business strategy. Disruption of our technology systems or unexpected network interruption could disrupt our business. We are increasingly dependent on technology systems to operate on a day-to-day basis. The failure of our technology systems, including the John Deere Operations Center™, to operate properly or effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or difficulty in integrating new systems, could adversely affect our business. These disruptions could result in delays, which could reduce demand for our products and cause our sales to decline. In addition, if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to manage our growth and new technologies, we could lose customers. Any significant disruption in our technology systems could harm our reputation and credibility and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE RISKS Our global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations, the violation of which could expose us to potential liabilities, increased costs, and other adverse effects. We are subject to numerous international, federal, state, and local laws, regulations, and executive orders; many of which are complex, frequently changing, and subject to varying interpretations. 23 Table of Contents These laws, regulations, and executive orders cover a variety of subjects, including advertising, anti-money laundering, antitrust, autonomy systems, consumer finance, environmental, climate-related, health and safety, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, foreign ownership and investment, import/export and trade, human rights, labor and employment, product liability reporting, cybersecurity, data privacy, encryption, artificial intelligence, telecommunications, and drones. Changes to existing laws, regulations, executive orders, and enforcement priorities, changes to how they are interpreted, or the implementation of new, more stringent laws, regulations, and executive orders, could adversely affect our business by increasing compliance costs, limiting our ability to offer a product or service, requiring changes to our business practices, or otherwise making our products and services less attractive to customers. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, and executive orders could result in fines and penalties. For example, in the U.S., we could lose government contracts and be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with executive orders. In addition, we must comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and all applicable foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence government officials or private individuals for the purpose of obtaining or retaining a business advantage, regardless of whether those practices are culturally expected in a particular jurisdiction. Although we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of these laws and regulations, our employees, contractors, or agents have violated, and in the future could violate such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures. Violations of these laws and regulations have resulted, and could result in the future, in criminal or civil sanctions and may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. Governmental actions designed to address climate change based on the emergence of new technologies and business models in connection with the transition to a lower-carbon economy could adversely affect John Deere and our customers. Climate change considerations have led to new international, national, regional, and local legislative and regulatory responses. Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders, and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, including us, are continuing to look for ways to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The regulation of GHG emissions from certain stationary or mobile sources or the imposition of carbon pricing mechanisms could result in additional costs to us in the form of taxes or emission allowances, required facilities improvements, research and development investments, and increased energy costs. These results would increase our operating costs through higher utility, transportation, and material costs and could prevent us from selling products into certain markets. Increased input costs, such as fuel and fertilizer, and compliance-related costs could also affect customer operations and demand for our equipment. Regulators in Europe and the U.S. have also focused efforts on increasing disclosures by companies related to climate change and mitigation efforts. These disclosure rules increase compliance burdens and associated regulatory costs. On the other hand, conflicting views on environmental topics, including GHG emissions reduction goals or other commitments addressing certain climate issues, are becoming increasingly subject to scrutiny from private sectors and governmental authorities. These conflicting views may impact our business and reputation. Further, our financial services segment is subject to additional international and national regulations relating to climate and environmental risk, which are continually evolving and could affect the financing operations and climate-risk processes developed by the segment. Legal proceedings, disputes and government inquiries and investigations could harm our business, financial condition, reputation, and brand. We routinely are a party to claims and legal actions and the subject of government inquiries and investigations, the most prevalent of which relate to antitrust (including class action litigation), product liability (including asbestos-related liability), employment, patent, and trademark. The defense of lawsuits and government inquiries and investigations have resulted and will continue to result in expenditures of significant financial resources and the diversion of management’s time and attention away from business operations. Adverse decisions in one or more of these claims, actions, inquiries, or investigations could require us to pay substantial damages, fines, or sanctions, undertake actions to modify our business model or services, initiate recall campaigns, or take other costly actions. It is therefore possible that legal judgments or investigations could give rise to expenses that are not covered, or not fully covered, by our insurance programs and could affect our financial position and results. We are currently subject to a consolidated multidistrict class action lawsuit in the Northern District of Illinois alleging that we have engaged in attempted monopolization, exclusionary conduct, and restraint of the market for repair services for John Deere brand agricultural equipment by limiting repair resources only to our authorized technicians or independent authorized John Deere dealers. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Attorneys General of the States of Arizona, Illinois, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois Western Division alleging similar claims. See