{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":419640,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
ITEM 1. Business General EOG Resources, Inc., a Delaware corporation organized in 1985, together with its subsidiaries (collectively, EOG), explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGLs) and natural gas primarily in major producing basins in the United States of America (United States or U.S.), the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (Trinidad) and, from time to time, select other international areas, including the Kingdom of Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates. EOG's principal producing areas are further described in "Exploration and Production" below. EOG's Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10‑Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports (including related exhibits and supplemental schedules) filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended) are made available, free of charge, through EOG's website, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). EOG's website address is www.eogresources.com. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into, and does not constitute a part of, this report. At December 31, 2025, EOG's total estimated net proved reserves were 5,514 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBoe), of which 1,905 million barrels (MMBbl) were crude oil and condensate reserves, 1,510 MMBbl were NGLs reserves and 12,592 billion cubic feet (Bcf), or 2,099 MMBoe, were natural gas reserves (see "Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements"). At such date, approximately 99% of EOG's net proved reserves, on a crude oil equivalent basis, were located in the United States and 1% in Trinidad. Crude oil equivalent volumes are determined using a ratio of 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or NGLs to 6.0 thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas. EOG's operations are all crude oil and natural gas exploration and production related. For information regarding the risks associated with EOG's domestic and foreign operations, see ITEM 1A, Risk Factors. EOG is focused on being among the highest return and lowest cost producers, committed to strong environmental performance and playing a significant role in the long-term future of energy. EOG operates under a consistent business and operational strategy that focuses on a comprehensive approach to developing acreage through industry cycles. EOG evaluates rate of return, net present value, margins, payback period and other key metrics. This strategy is intended to enhance the generation of cash flow and earnings from each unit of production on a cost-efficient basis, allowing EOG to maximize long-term growth in shareholder value and maintain a strong balance sheet. EOG is also focused on innovation and cost-effective utilization of advanced technology associated with three-dimensional seismic and microseismic data, the development of reservoir simulation models and the use of improved drilling equipment and completion technologies for horizontal drilling and formation evaluation. These advanced technologies are used, as appropriate, throughout EOG to reduce the risks and costs associated with all aspects of oil and gas exploration, development and exploitation. EOG implements its strategy primarily by emphasizing the drilling of internally generated prospects in order to find and develop low-cost reserves. Maintaining the lowest possible operating cost structure, coupled with efficient and safe operations and robust environmental stewardship practices and performance, is integral in the implementation of EOG's strategy. With respect to information on EOG's working interest in wells or acreage, "net" oil and gas wells or acreage are determined by multiplying "gross" oil and gas wells or acreage by EOG's working interest in the wells or acreage. Exploration and Production United States Operations EOG's operations are located in most of the productive basins in the United States with a focus on crude oil and natural gas plays. At December 31, 2025, on a crude oil equivalent basis, 35% of EOG's net proved reserves in the United States were crude oil and condensate, 27% were NGLs and 38% were natural gas. The majority of these reserves are in long-lived fields with well-established production characteristics. EOG believes opportunities exist to increase production through continued development in and around many of these fields and through the utilization of applicable technologies. EOG also maintains an active exploration program designed to extend fields and add new trends and resource plays to its already broad portfolio. 1 The following is a summary of volume statistics and net well completions for the year ended December 31, 2025, total net acres at December 31, 2025, and expected net well completions planned for 2026 for certain areas of EOG's United States operations. 2025 2026 Area of Operation Crude Oil & Condensate Volumes (MBbld) (1) Natural Gas Liquids Volumes (MBbld) (1) Natural Gas Volumes (MMcfd) (1) Total Net Acres (in thousands) Net Well Completions Expected Net Well Completions Delaware Basin 318.7 199.4 1,179 395 393 300 South Texas 121.3 32.3 581 1,313 149 155 Appalachian Basin 32.4 32.7 340 1,736 55 85 Rocky Mountain 40.7 14.0 143 748 34 45 Other Areas 7.4 9.8 56 474 10 — Total 520.5 288.2 2,299 4,666 641 585 (1) Thousand barrels per day or million cubic feet per day, as applicable. In the Delaware Basin, EOG completed 393 net wells in 2025, primarily in the Wolfcamp, Bone Spring and Leonard plays. Activity in 2026 will remain focused on the Wolfcamp, Bone Spring and Leonard plays, where EOG expects to complete approximately 300 net wells. The South Texas area includes the Eagle Ford play and the Dorado gas play. EOG holds approximately 565,000 net acres in the Eagle Ford play and approximately 160,000 net acres in the Dorado gas play. In 2025, EOG completed 122 net wells in the Eagle Ford play and 27 net wells in the Dorado gas play. In 2026, EOG expects to complete approximately 115 net Eagle Ford play wells and 40 net Dorado gas play wells. The Appalachian Basin includes the Utica play where EOG holds approximately 1,100,000 net acres, including 135,000 net mineral acres. In 2025, EOG completed 55 net wells in the Utica play. In 2026, EOG expects to complete approximately 85 net wells in the Utica play. For discussion regarding EOG's August 2025 acquisition of Encino Acquisition Partners, LLC, see ITEM 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview – Operations and Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements. In the Rocky Mountain area, EOG completed 22 net wells in 2025 in the Powder River Basin and 12 net wells in the Williston Basin. In 2026, EOG expects to complete approximately 45 net wells across the Powder River Basin and the Williston Basin. 2 Operations Outside the United States EOG has operations offshore Trinidad, onshore Bahrain, and onshore United Arab Emirates, and is evaluating additional exploration, development and exploitation opportunities in those jurisdictions and other select international areas. Trinidad. EOG, through its subsidiaries, including EOG Resources Trinidad Limited, holds interests in (i) the exploration and production licenses covering the South East Coast Consortium and Pelican Blocks, Banyan and Sercan Areas and each of their related platforms and facilities, the Ska, Mento and Reggae and Deep Teak, Saaman and Poui (TSP Deep) Areas and Coconut Field, all of which are offshore Trinidad; and (ii) four production sharing contracts with the Government of Trinidad and Tobago for the Modified U(a), 4(a), Lower Reverse L and North Coast Marine Area 4(a) Blocks. Several of the fields listed above have been developed and produce natural gas and crude oil and condensate. In 2025, EOG's net production in Trinidad averaged approximately 230 MMcfd of natural gas and approximately 1.4 MBbld of crude oil and condensate. In 2025, EOG completed three gross developmental wells and one gross exploratory well from the Mento platform in the Mento Area as part of an ongoing drilling program. EOG also continues to move forward on the design and construction of the Coconut Platform in accordance with the farmout agreement signed in 2024 with BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC. In 2026, EOG expects to (i) complete the Mento drilling program; (ii) complete and install the Coconut Platform along with supporting pipelines; and (iii) continue to make progress on various opportunities, which include a new drilling program to drill exploration, appraisal and development wells. Bahrain. In February 2025, a subsidiary of EOG signed an exploration participation agreement with Bapco Energies B.S.C. (Closed) (Bapco) to evaluate a gas exploration prospect in the Kingdom of Bahrain. In August 2025, the government of the Kingdom of Bahrain approved the related concession agreement. As part of the transaction, EOG has a working interest in several producing legacy wells. EOG has commenced drilling of exploratory wells, which are expected to be completed in 2026. United Arab Emirates. In May 2025, a subsidiary of EOG was awarded a new oil exploration concession for Unconventional Onshore Block 3 (UCO3) by Abu Dhabi's Supreme Council for Financial and Economic Affairs. EOG holds a 100 percent equity interest and operatorship and, in coordination with Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC), has commenced drilling operations to explore and appraise unconventional oil potential in the concession area. Following a three-year appraisal period, EOG may enter into a production concession in which ADNOC has the option to participate. 3 Marketing In 2025, EOG continued its diversified approach to marketing its crude oil and condensate. The majority of EOG's United States crude oil and condensate production was transported by pipeline to downstream markets with the remainder sold into local markets. Major U.S. sales areas accessed by EOG were at various locations along the U.S. Gulf Coast; Cushing, Oklahoma; the Permian Basin; the Northeast; and the Midwest. In 2025, EOG also sold crude oil at the Port of Corpus Christi for export to foreign destinations. In each case, the price received was based on market prices at that specific sales point or based on the price index applicable for that location. In 2026, the pricing mechanism for such production is expected to remain the same. At December 31, 2025, EOG was committed to deliver to multiple parties aggregate fixed quantities of crude oil of 24 MMBbls in 2026, 11 MMBbls in 2027 and 4 MMBbls in 2028, all of which is expected to be sourced from future production of available reserves. In 2025, EOG processed certain of its United States natural gas production, either at EOG-owned facilities or at third-party facilities, extracting NGLs. NGLs were sold at prevailing market prices, into either local markets or downstream locations. In certain instances, EOG exchanged its NGLs production for purity products received downstream, which were sold at prevailing market prices. In 2025, EOG also sold purity products at the Houston Ship Channel. In each case, the price received was based on market prices for that location and purity product. In 2026, the pricing mechanisms for NGL and purity products sales are expected to remain the same. At December 31, 2025, EOG was committed to deliver to multiple parties aggregate fixed quantities of purity products of 24 MMBbls in 2026, all of which is expected to be sourced from future production of available reserves. In 2025, consistent with its diversified marketing strategy, the majority of EOG's United States natural gas production was transported by pipeline to various locations throughout the United States and the Dawn Hub in Ontario. Remaining natural gas production was sold into local markets. Pricing was primarily based on the spot market price at the ultimate sales point. In 2026, the pricing mechanism for such production is expected to generally remain the same. Additionally, EOG sells natural gas to a liquefaction facility near Corpus Christi, Texas, and may receive pricing based on the Platts Japan Korea Marker (or the NYMEX Henry Hub price, at EOG's election); such pricing mechanism is expected to remain the same in 2026. At December 31, 2025, EOG was committed to deliver to multiple parties aggregate fixed quantities of natural gas of 573 Bcf in 2026, 370 Bcf in 2027, 338 Bcf in 2028, 336 Bcf in 2029, 331 Bcf in 2030 and 3,020 Bcf thereafter, all of which is expected to be sourced from future production of available reserves. In 2025, natural gas volumes from Trinidad were sold to the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago Limited and its subsidiary under two natural gas sales arrangements. Crude oil and condensate are sold to both Heritage Petroleum Company Limited and BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC. In certain instances, EOG purchases and sells third-party crude oil and natural gas in order to balance firm capacity at third-party facilities with production in certain areas and to utilize excess capacity at EOG-owned facilities. During 2025, two purchasers each accounted for more than 10% of EOG's total crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas revenues and gathering, processing and marketing revenues. The purchasers are in the crude oil refining industry. EOG does not believe that the loss of any single purchaser would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. 4 Volumes and Prices The following table sets forth certain information regarding EOG's volumes of, and average prices for, crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas. The table also presents crude oil equivalent volumes which are determined using a ratio of 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or NGLs to 6.0 Mcf of natural gas for each of the years ended December 31, 2025, 2024 and 2023. See ITEM 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations, for volumes on a per-day basis. Year Ended December 31 2025 2024 2023 Crude Oil and Condensate Volumes (MMBbl) (1) United States: Delaware Basin 116.7 113.3 110.2 Eagle Ford Play 44.2 45.5 43.9 Other 29.1 20.8 19.4 United States 190.0 179.6 173.5 Trinidad 0.5 0.3 0.2 Total 190.5 179.9 173.7 Natural Gas Liquids Volumes (MMBbl) (1) United States: Delaware Basin 73.0 67.7 59.8 Eagle Ford Play 11.7 11.1 10.5 Other 20.5 11.2 11.4 United States 105.2 90.0 81.7 Total 105.2 90.0 81.7 Natural Gas Volumes (Bcf) (1) United States: Delaware Basin 431 380 325 Eagle Ford Play 56 53 50 Other 352 199 191 United States 839 632 566 Trinidad 84 81 59 Other International (2) 1 — — Total 924 713 625 Crude Oil Equivalent Volumes (MMBoe) (3) United States: Delaware Basin 261.5 244.4 224.2 Eagle Ford Play 65.3 65.4 62.7 Other 108.2 65.2 62.6 United States 435.0 375.0 349.5 Trinidad 14.6 13.7 9.9 Other International (2) 0.2 — — Total 449.8 388.7 359.4 5 Year Ended December 31 2025 2024 2023 Average Crude Oil and Condensate Prices ($/Bbl) (4) United States $ 65.65 $ 77.42 $ 79.18 Trinidad 57.59 64.43 68.58 Composite 65.63 77.40 79.17 Average Natural Gas Liquids Prices ($/Bbl) (4) United States $ 22.58 $ 23.40 $ 23.07 Composite 22.58 23.40 23.07 Average Natural Gas Prices ($/Mcf) (4) United States $ 2.94 $ 1.99 $ 2.70 Trinidad 3.78 3.65 3.65 Other International (2) 3.28 — — Composite 3.02 2.17 2.79 (1) Million barrels or billion cubic feet, as applicable. (2) Production volumes from Bahrain operations; realized price represents contract price less Bapco's processing and distribution costs. (3) Million barrels of oil equivalent; includes crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas. (4) Dollars per barrel or per thousand cubic feet, as applicable. Excludes the impact of financial commodity and other derivative instruments (see Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements). Human Capital Management As of December 31, 2025, EOG employed approximately 3,400 persons, including foreign national employees. EOG's approach to human capital management includes oversight by the Board of Directors (Board) and the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board and focuses on various areas, including the following: Culture; Recruiting; Retention . EOG's culture is key to its sustainable success. By providing employees with a quality work environment and maintaining a consistent college recruiting and internship program and experienced talent recruiting program, EOG is able to attract and retain many of the industry's best and brightest. To help assess the effectiveness of its approach to human capital management, EOG conducts an annual employee engagement and satisfaction survey. Based on the results of the survey, EOG has received "top workplace" recognition in various office locations as well as several "culture excellence" awards. EOG values the gender, racial, ethnic and cultural backgrounds of our employees and works to foster a collaborative work environment of different talents, perspectives and experiences. EOG believes the backgrounds, viewpoints and experiences of our employees, as well as an inclusive work environment, promotes collaboration through multiple perspectives, which helps enhance creativity and drive innovation. Further, as reflected in its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, Officers and Employees, EOG is committed to providing equal opportunity in all aspects of employment and to hiring, evaluating and promoting employees based on skills and performance. Compensation, Benefits, Health & Wellness . EOG values attracting and retaining talent, and so it provides competitive salaries, bonuses and a subsidized, comprehensive benefits package. EOG also offers a holistic wellness program, a matching gifts program, a flexible work schedule, paid family care leave, paid leave for illness or injury, paid volunteer time and an employee assistance program to support the mental well-being of employees and their dependents. In addition, new-hire stock grants, annual stock grants and an employee stock purchase plan give every employee the opportunity to be a participant in EOG's success. 6 Training and Development . EOG supports employees' professional development and provides training in leadership, communication, team effectiveness, technical skills and use of EOG systems and applications. EOG's leadership training, in particular, is focused on providing continuity of leadership at EOG by further enhancing the skills needed to lead a multi-disciplined and decentralized workforce. In addition, EOG holds several internal technical conferences each year designed to share best practices and technical advances across the company, including safety and environmental topics. EOG also offers its employees a tuition reimbursement program as well as reimbursement for the costs of professional certifications. Safety . EOG's safety management programs and processes provide a framework for assessing safety performance in a systematic way. To foster accountability for conducting operations in a safe manner, EOG's safety performance is considered in evaluating employee performance and compensation. EOG provides initial, periodic and refresher safety training to employees and contractors. These training programs address various topics, including operating procedures, safe work practices and emergency and incident response procedures. EOG also collects and tracks incident data and metrics to identify trends and implement corrective actions as necessary. Competition EOG competes with major integrated oil and gas companies, government-affiliated oil and gas companies and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of licenses, concessions and leases, properties and reserves and access to the facilities, equipment, materials, services, and employees and other personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) necessary to explore for, develop, produce, market and transport crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. Certain of EOG's competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those EOG possesses and have established strategic long-term positions or strong governmental relationships in countries or areas in which EOG may seek new or expanded entry. As a consequence, EOG may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights or in accessing and retaining necessary services, facilities, equipment, materials and personnel. In addition, EOG's larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production and the cost and availability of alternative fuels. EOG also faces competition from alternative energy sources, such as renewable energy sources. See ITEM 1A, Risk Factors. Regulation General. New or revised rules, regulations and policies may be issued, and new legislation may be enacted, that could impact the oil and gas exploration and production industry. Such rules, regulations, policies and legislation may affect, among other things, (i) permitting for oil and gas drilling on state, tribal and federal lands, (ii) the leasing of state, tribal and federal lands for oil and gas development, (iii) the regulation and disclosure of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and/or other climate change-related matters associated with oil and gas operations (e.g., the development, implementation and carrying out of carbon capture and storage activities, including associated financial or tax incentives), (iv) the use of hydraulic fracturing on state, tribal and federal lands, (v) the calculation of royalty payments in respect of oil and gas production from state, tribal and federal lands (including, but not limited to, applicable royalty percentages), (vi) U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to oil and gas exploration and production companies and (vii) the use of financial derivative instruments to hedge the financial impact of fluctuations in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices. For additional discussion regarding the regulatory-related risks to which EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations are or may be subject, see the below discussion and ITEM 1A, Risk Factors. United States Regulation of Crude Oil and Natural Gas Production. Crude oil and natural gas production operations are subject to various types of regulation, including regulation by federal and state agencies. United States legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is regularly reviewed, expanded and/or revised by lawmakers. In addition, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue, and have issued, rules and regulations applicable to the oil and gas industry. Such rules and regulations, among other things, require permits for the drilling of wells, regulate the spacing of wells, prevent the waste of natural gas through restrictions on flaring, require surety bonds for various exploration and production operations and regulate the calculation and payment of royalty payments (for federal and state leases), production taxes and ad valorem taxes. 7 A portion of EOG's oil and gas leases in New Mexico, North Dakota and Wyoming, as well as in other areas, are granted by the federal government and administered by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and/or the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), both federal agencies. Operations conducted by EOG on federal oil and gas leases must comply with numerous additional statutory and regulatory restrictions and, in the case of leases relating to tribal lands, certain tribal environmental and permitting requirements and employment rights regulations. In addition, the U.S. Department of the Interior (via various of its agencies, including the BLM, the BIA and the Office of Natural Resources Revenue) has certain authority over our calculation and payment of royalties, bonuses, fines, penalties, assessments and other revenues related to federal and tribal oil and gas leases. In addition, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA) required that all leases granted and administered by the BLM and entered into on or after August 16, 2022 include a royalty rate of 16.67 percent in respect of the associated oil and gas production. Regulations implementing the new royalty rate were finalized in April 2024. However, the July 2025 One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA) reversed the royalty increase enacted under the IRA to the previous rate of 12.5 percent and repealed a royalty imposed on methane produced from federal oil and gas leases. BLM and BIA leases contain relatively standardized terms requiring compliance with detailed regulations. Under certain circumstances, the BLM or BIA may require operations on federal leases to be suspended or terminated. Any such suspension or termination could materially and adversely affect EOG's interests on federal lands. From time to time, the U.S. Department of the Interior has also considered limiting or pausing new oil and natural gas leases on federal lands. Any limitation or ban on permitting for oil and gas exploration and production activities on federal lands could have a material and adverse effect on EOG's operations, financial condition and results of operations. EOG's interests in offshore United States leases are de minimis. The transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce are regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938, as amended (NGA), and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. These statutes are administered by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Effective January 1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989 deregulated natural gas prices for all "first sales" of natural gas, which includes all sales by EOG of its own production. All other sales of natural gas by EOG, such as those of natural gas purchased from third parties, remain jurisdictional sales subject to a blanket sales certificate under the NGA, which has flexible terms and conditions. Consequently, all of EOG's sales of natural gas currently may be made at unregulated market prices, subject to applicable contract provisions. EOG's jurisdictional sales, however, may be subject in the future to greater federal oversight, including the possibility that the FERC might prospectively impose more restrictive conditions on such sales. EOG's sales of crude oil and condensate and NGLs are made at unregulated market prices. EOG owns certain gathering and/or processing facilities and systems in the Permian Basin in West Texas and New Mexico, the Anadarko Basin in Oklahoma, the Powder River Basin in Wyoming, the Appalachian Basin in Ohio, the Barnett Shale in North Texas, the Bakken and Three Forks plays in the Williston Basin in North Dakota, and the Eagle Ford play and Dorado gas play in South Texas. State regulation of gathering and processing facilities generally includes various safety, environmental and, in some circumstances, nondiscrimination requirements with respect to the provision of gathering and processing services, but does not generally entail rate regulation. EOG's gathering and processing operations could be materially and adversely affected should they be subject in the future to the application of state or federal regulation of rates and services. EOG's gathering and processing operations also may be, or become, subject to safety and operational regulations relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of such facilities. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these matters are considered and/or adopted from time to time. Although EOG cannot predict what effect, if any, such legislation might have on its operations and financial condition, EOG could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased compliance and operating costs depending on the nature and extent of such future legislative and regulatory changes. EOG also owns crude oil truck unloading facilities in certain of its U.S. plays. Regulation of such facilities is conducted at the state and federal levels and generally includes various safety, environmental and permitting requirements. Additional regulation pertaining to these matters is considered and/or adopted from time to time. Although EOG cannot predict what effect, if any, any such new regulations might have on the transportation of its crude oil production by truck, EOG could be required to incur additional capital expenditures and increased compliance and operating costs depending on the nature and extent of such future regulatory changes. EOG did not transport any crude oil by rail during 2025. 8 Proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the state legislatures, the FERC and other federal, state and local regulatory commissions, agencies, councils and courts. EOG cannot predict when or whether any such proposals or proceedings may become effective. It should also be noted that the oil and gas industry historically has been very heavily regulated; therefore, there is no assurance that the approach currently being followed by such legislative bodies and regulatory commissions, agencies, councils and courts will remain unchanged. Environmental Regulation Generally - United States. EOG is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations covering the discharge or release of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations affect EOG's operations and costs as a result of their effect on crude oil and natural gas exploration, development and production operations and related activities (e.g., carbon capture and storage). Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial obligations, the suspension or revocation of necessary permits, licenses and authorizations, the requirement that additional pollution controls be installed and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements. In addition, EOG has acquired certain oil and gas properties from third parties whose actions with respect to the management and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes were not under EOG's control. Under environmental laws and regulations, EOG could be required to remove or remediate wastes disposed of or released by prior owners or operators. EOG also could incur costs related to the clean-up of third-party sites to which it sent regulated substances for disposal or to which it sent equipment for cleaning, and for damages to natural resources or other claims related to releases of regulated substances at such third-party sites. In addition, EOG could be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for oil and gas properties in which EOG previously owned or currently owns an interest, but was or is not the operator. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had, to date, a material adverse effect on EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations or capital expenditures (for environmental control facilities or otherwise). In addition, it is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts (whether for environmental control facilities or otherwise) that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with such laws and regulations. However, EOG is unable to predict (i) the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws or regulations regarding the environment and (ii) the ultimate cost of compliance or the ultimate effect on EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations and capital expenditures relating to such future laws and regulations. The direct and indirect cost of such laws and regulations (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations and capital expenditures. Climate Change - United States. Local, state, federal and international regulatory bodies have been focused on GHG emissions and climate change issues in recent years. The U.S. Congress has, from time to time, proposed legislation for imposing restrictions on, or requiring fees or carbon taxes in respect of, GHG emissions. Further, the IRA imposes a methane emissions charge on certain oil and gas facilities, including onshore and offshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities, that exceed certain emissions thresholds. The charge will be levied annually based on emissions reported under the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (U.S. EPA) GHG Reporting Program, which was amended in May 2024, impacting how emissions are reported under the program. The U.S. EPA published final regulations specific to the calculation of such annual charge in November 2024. In February 2025, however, the U.S. House and Senate approved a joint resolution of disapproval under the Congressional Review Act to repeal the methane emissions charge regulations, which was signed into law, and the OBBBA postponed the imposition of the IRA's methane emissions charge to 2034. In any event, EOG does not expect such annual methane emissions charge would have a material impact on EOG's financial condition, results of operations or operations. 9 In addition to the U.S. EPA's rule requiring annual reporting of GHG emissions from covered facilities (which is amended from time to time and under which EOG reports), the U.S. EPA has adopted regulations for certain large sources regulating GHG emissions as pollutants under the federal Clean Air Act. Further, the U.S. EPA, in May 2016, issued regulations that require operators to reduce methane emissions and emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) from new, modified and reconstructed crude oil and natural gas wells and equipment located at natural gas production gathering and boosting stations, gas processing plants and natural gas transmission compressor stations. In November 2021, the U.S. EPA proposed a rule to further reduce methane and VOC emissions from new and existing sources in the oil and natural gas sector and, in November 2022, the U.S. EPA issued a supplemental proposal to expand its November 2021 proposed rule, including proposed regulation of additional sources of methane and VOC emissions, such as abandoned and unplugged wells. In addition, in March 2024, the U.S. EPA published its final methane rules, which impose new methane emission requirements on the oil and gas industry, including our operations. Further, in April 2024, the BLM published its final Waste Prevention Rule, which requires operators of oil and gas leases to take reasonable steps to avoid natural gas waste, as well as develop leak detection, repair and waste minimization plans. However, in September 2025, the U.S. EPA announced a proposal to end the GHG Reporting Program for all sectors except petroleum and natural gas systems (excluding reporting for natural gas distribution, which would also be eliminated under the proposal) and defer reporting for petroleum and natural gas systems until 2034. In addition, in December 2025, the U.S. EPA issued a final rule extending several compliance deadlines and timeframes associated with its 2024 methane rules, and the BLM announced it would delay enforcement of two provisions of the Waste Prevention Rule scheduled to take effect in December 2025 as it reconsiders revisions to the 2024 regulations. Further, on February 12, 2026, the U.S. EPA announced the rescission of its 2009 "Endangerment Finding" under the Clean Air Act, which found that GHGs endanger the public health and welfare of current and future generations and emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles contribute to GHG pollution. The rescission impacts the U.S. EPA's authority to regulate GHGs, as well as the U.S. EPA's prior scientific assessment of climate change risks. Litigation challenging the rescission is anticipated which may influence the rescission and the U.S. EPA's regulation of GHG emissions going forward. At the international level, the U.S., in December 2015, participated in the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France. The Paris Agreement (adopted at the conference) calls for nations to undertake efforts with respect to global temperatures and GHG emissions. The Paris Agreement went into effect in November 2016. The United States formally rejoined the Paris Conference in February 2021 and established economy-wide targets of (i) reducing its net GHG emissions by 50-52 percent below 2005 levels by 2030 and (ii) achieving net zero GHG emissions economy-wide by no later than 2050. In December 2023, the first global stocktake, also known as the “UAE Consensus,” was issued at the COP 28 Conference. The UAE Consensus is an assessment of members’ collective efforts and achievements to reduce GHG emissions and adapt to the impacts of climate change. The UAE Consensus calls on parties, including the U.S., to contribute to the transitioning away from fossil fuels, reduce methane emissions, and increase renewable energy capacity, among other things, to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. In January 2025, the United States submitted formal notification to the United Nations that it intended to withdraw from the Paris Agreement; pursuant to the terms of the Paris Agreement, such withdrawal took effect on January 27, 2026. On January 7, 2026, it was announced that the United States will also withdraw from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. State and local officials may, however, continue efforts to uphold the commitments set forth in the international accord. EOG believes that its strategy to continue to improve its emissions performance is important for environmental, operational and economic reasons. EOG’s approach to reducing emissions from its operations remains operationally focused. For example, EOG has developed an environmental data collection and analysis system that is utilized in calculating GHG emissions from the facilities it operates. This system calculates emissions based on recognized regulatory methodologies, where applicable, and on commonly accepted engineering practices. In addition, EOG has developed, and will continue to develop, targets and ambitions related to its environmental initiatives, including, but not limited to, its current emissions targets. See ITEM 1A, Risk Factors, for additional discussion regarding EOG’s initiatives, targets and ambitions related to emissions and other environmental matters. 10 EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future investigations, laws, regulations, treaties or policies regarding climate change and GHG emissions (including any laws and regulations that may be enacted in the U.S.), but the direct and indirect costs of such investigations, laws, regulations, treaties or policies (if enacted, issued or applied) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations and capital expenditures. The potential increase in the costs of our operations could include costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emissions controls on our facilities, acquire allowances or credits to cover our GHG emissions, pay taxes, charges or fees related to our GHG emissions, or administer and manage a GHG emissions program. In addition, changes in regulatory policies that result in a reduction in the demand for hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to GHG emissions, or restrictions on their use, could also adversely affect market demand for, and in turn the prices we receive for our production of, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. Further, the increasing attention to global climate change risks may create the potential for a greater likelihood of governmental investigations and private and public litigation, which could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. See ITEM 1A, Risk Factors, for additional discussion regarding climate change-related developments. Regulation of Hydraulic Fracturing and Other Operations - United States. Substantially all of the onshore crude oil and natural gas wells drilled by EOG are completed and stimulated through the use of hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing technology, which has been used by the oil and gas industry for more than 70 years and is constantly being enhanced, enables EOG to produce crude oil and natural gas that otherwise would not be recovered. Specifically, hydraulic fracturing is a process in which pressurized fluid is pumped into underground formations to create tiny fractures or spaces that allow crude oil and natural gas to flow from the reservoir into the well so that it can be brought to the surface. Hydraulic fracturing generally takes place thousands of feet underground, a considerable distance below any drinking water aquifers; further, there are impermeable layers of rock between the area fractured and the water aquifers. The makeup of the fluid used in EOG’s hydraulic fracturing process includes water and sand, and typically less than 0.5% of highly diluted chemical additives; lists of the chemical additives used in fracturing fluids are available to the public via internet websites and in other publications sponsored by industry trade associations and through state agencies in those states that require the reporting of the components of fracturing fluids. While the majority of the sand remains underground to hold open the fractures, a significant amount of the water and chemical additives flow back and are then either reused or safely disposed of at sites that are approved and permitted by the appropriate regulatory authorities. EOG periodically conducts regulatory assessments of these disposal facilities to monitor compliance with applicable regulations. The regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state and local level through permitting and other compliance requirements. In April 2012, however, the U.S. EPA issued regulations specifically applicable to the oil and gas industry that require operators to significantly reduce VOC emissions from natural gas wells that are hydraulically fractured through the use of "green completions" to capture natural gas that would otherwise escape into the air. The U.S. EPA has also issued regulations that establish standards for VOC emissions from several types of equipment, including storage tanks, compressors, dehydrators, and valves and sweetening units at gas processing plants. In addition, and as further discussed above under “Climate Change – United States,” the U.S. EPA has issued regulations with respect to the reduction of methane and VOC emissions, including its final methane rules published in March 2024. From time to time, there have been various other proposals to regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level. In addition to the above-described federal regulations, some state and local governments have imposed, or have considered imposing, various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations, including requirements regarding casing and cementing of wells; testing of nearby water wells; restrictions on access to, and usage of, water; disclosure of the chemical additives used in hydraulic fracturing operations; restrictions on the type of chemical additives that may be used in hydraulic fracturing operations; and restrictions on drilling or injection activities on certain lands lying within wilderness wetlands, ecologically or seismically sensitive areas, and other protected areas. Such federal, state and local permitting and disclosure requirements, operating restrictions, conditions or prohibitions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, moreover, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing. 11 Compliance with laws and regulations relating to hydraulic fracturing and other aspects of our operations increases EOG's overall cost of business, but has not had, to date, a material adverse effect on EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations or capital expenditures (whether for environmental control facilities or otherwise). In addition, it is not anticipated, based on current laws and regulations, that EOG will be required in the near future to expend amounts that are material in relation to its total exploration and development expenditure program in order to comply with such laws and regulations. However, EOG is unable to predict (i) the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws or regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing in the United States or other aspects of our operations and (ii) the ultimate cost of compliance or the ultimate effect on EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations and capital expenditures relating to such future laws and regulations. The direct and indirect costs of such laws and regulations (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations and capital expenditures. Other International Regulation. EOG's exploration and production operations outside the United States are subject to various types of regulations, including environmental regulations, imposed by the respective governments of the countries in which EOG's operations are conducted, and may affect EOG's operations and costs of compliance within those countries. EOG is unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, including those regarding climate change and hydraulic fracturing, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect EOG's operations, financial condition, results of operations and capital expenditures. EOG will continue to review the risks to its existing business and operations, as well as any potential business and operations, outside the United States associated with all environmental matters, including climate change and hydraulic fracturing regulation. In addition, EOG will continue to monitor and assess any new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas outside the United States where it operates, to determine the impact on its operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. Further, EOG will continue to monitor and assess the impact on its business of any environmental, climate change or other policies, legislation and regulations enacted by foreign governments – for example, the European Union’s November 2023 approval of methane emissions limits on crude oil and natural gas imports beginning in 2030. Other Matters Energy Prices. EOG is a crude oil and natural gas producer and is impacted by changes in the prices for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas. During the last three years, average United States commodity prices have fluctuated, at times rather dramatically. Average crude oil and condensate prices received by EOG for production in the United States decreased 15% in 2025, decreased 2% in 2024 and decreased 19% in 2023, each as compared to the immediately preceding year. Average NGLs prices received by EOG for production in the United States decreased 4% in 2025, increased 1% in 2024 and decreased 37% in 2023, each as compared to the immediately preceding year. Fluctuations in average natural gas prices received by EOG for production in the United States resulted in a 48% increase in 2025, a 26% decrease in 2024, and a 63% decrease in 2023, each as compared to the immediately preceding year. Due to the many uncertainties associated with the world political and economic environment (for example, the actions of other crude oil exporting nations, including the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or the global impacts of wars or military conflicts involving such nations or regions), the global supply of, and demand for, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and the availability of other energy supplies, the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers and other factors, EOG is unable to predict what changes may occur in the prices of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas in the future. For additional discussion regarding changes in crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices, the potential impacts on EOG and the risks that such changes may present to EOG, see ITEM 1A, Risk Factors. Based on EOG's tax position, EOG's price sensitivity in 2026 for each $1.00 per barrel increase or decrease in crude oil and condensate price, combined with the estimated change in NGLs price, is approximately $174 million for net income and $223 million for pretax cash flows from operating activities. Including the impact of EOG's natural gas financial derivative contracts and based on EOG's tax position and the portion of EOG's anticipated natural gas volumes for 2026 for which prices have not been determined under long-term marketing contracts, EOG's price sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf increase or decrease in natural gas price is approximately $64 million for net income and $83 million for pretax cash flows from operating activities. For a summary of EOG's financial commodity and other derivative contracts through February 18, 2026, see ITEM 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Capital Resources and Liquidity - Financial Commodity and Other Derivative Transactions. For a summary of EOG's financial commodity and other derivative contracts for the year ended December 31, 2025, see Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. 12 Risk Management. EOG engages in price risk management activities from time to time. These activities are intended to manage EOG's exposure to fluctuations in prices of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. EOG utilizes financial commodity derivative instruments, primarily price swap, option, swaption, collar and basis swap contracts, as a means to manage this price risk. See Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements. For a summary of EOG's financial commodity and other derivative contracts through February 18, 2026, see ITEM 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ‑ Capital Resources and Liquidity - Financial Commodity and Other Derivative Transactions. All of EOG's crude oil, NGLs and natural gas activities are subject to the risks normally incident to the exploration for, and development, production and transportation of, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, including rig and well explosions, cratering, fires, loss of well control and leaks and spills, each of which could result in damage to life, property and/or the environment. EOG's operations are also subject to certain perils, including hurricanes, tropical storms, flooding, winter storms and other adverse weather events. Moreover, EOG's activities are subject to governmental regulations as well as interruption or termination by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations. Losses and liabilities arising from such events could reduce EOG's revenues and increase costs to EOG to the extent not covered by insurance. Insurance is maintained by EOG against many, but not all, of these risks in accordance with what EOG believes are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that EOG believes to be prudent and commercially practicable. Specifically, EOG maintains commercial general liability and excess liability insurance coverage for third party property damage, bodily injury or death claims resulting from an incident involving EOG's operations, including a sudden and accidental pollution event (subject to policy terms and conditions). EOG also maintains first party property damage insurance that covers damage to EOG's equipment, facilities and structures due to a physical damage event and maintains operators extra expense (OEE) coverage for obligations, expenses or claims that EOG may incur from a control of well incident, including obligations, expenses or claims with respect to a resulting pollution event, including coverage for cleanup and containment (subject to policy terms and conditions). EOG's drilling activities are conducted on a contractual basis with independent drilling contractors and other third-party service contractors. The indemnification and other risk allocation provisions included in such contracts are negotiated on a contract-by-contract basis and are each based on the particular circumstances of the services being provided and the anticipated operations. In addition to the above-described risks, EOG's operations outside the United States are subject to certain additional risks, including: • increases in taxes and governmental royalties; • additional and potentially unfamiliar laws and policies governing the operations of foreign-based companies and changes in such laws and policies; • expropriation of assets; • unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities; and • currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations. Please refer to ITEM 1A, Risk Factors, for further discussion of the risks to which EOG is subject with respect to its operations outside the United States. 13 Information About Our Executive Officers The current executive officers of EOG and their names and ages (as of February 24, 2026) are as follows: Name Age Position Ezra Y. Yacob 49 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey R. Leitzell 46 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Ann D. Janssen 61 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Michael P. Donaldson 63 Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer Ezra Y. Yacob was appointed Chairman of the Board, effective October 2022, and elected Chief Executive Officer and appointed as a Director effective October 2021. Prior to that, he served as President from January 2021 through September 2021; Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production from December 2017 to January 2021; and Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Midland, Texas office from May 2014 to December 2017. He also previously served as Manager, Division Exploration in EOG's Fort Worth, Texas, and Midland, Texas, offices from March 2012 to May 2014 as well as in various geoscience and leadership positions. Mr. Yacob joined EOG in August 2005. Jeffrey R. Leitzell was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in December 2023. Mr. Leitzell previously served as Executive Vice President, Exploration and Production from May 2021 to December 2023, Vice President and General Manager of EOG's Midland, Texas office from December 2017 to May 2021 and as Operations Manager in Midland from August 2015 to December 2017. Prior to that, Mr. Leitzell held various engineering roles of increasing responsibility in multiple offices and functional areas within EOG. Mr. Leitzell joined EOG in October 2008. Ann D. Janssen was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective January 2024. Previously, Ms. Janssen served as Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from February 2018 through December 2023 and as EOG's principal accounting officer from September 2010 through December 2023. Prior to that, Ms. Janssen held various accounting and finance roles of increasing responsibilities. Ms. Janssen joined a predecessor of EOG in October 1995. Michael P. Donaldson was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer in September 2025. Previously, Mr. Donaldson served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from April 2016 to September 2025 and served as Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from May 2012 to April 2016. He was elected Corporate Secretary in May 2008, and was appointed Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in July 2010. Mr. Donaldson joined EOG in September 2007. 14 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information contained herein, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Unless the context requires otherwise, "we," "us," "our" and "EOG" refer to EOG Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Risks Related to our Financial Condition, Results of Operations and Cash Flows Crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices are volatile, and a substantial and extended decline in commodity prices can have a material and adverse effect on us. Prices for crude oil and natural gas (including prices for natural gas liquids (NGLs) and condensate) fluctuate widely. Among the interrelated factors that can or could cause these price fluctuations are: • domestic and worldwide supplies of, and consumer and industrial/commercial demand for, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas; • domestic and international drilling activity; • the actions of crude oil producing and exporting nations, including the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • worldwide economic conditions, geopolitical factors and political conditions, including, but not limited to, tariffs; trade policies, trade agreements and trade restrictions; other economic sanctions or barriers; and political instability or armed conflicts in oil and gas producing regions; • the availability, proximity and capacity of appropriate gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining, liquefaction and export facilities; • the price and availability of, and demand for, competing energy sources, including alternative energy sources; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements and climate change-related legislation, policies, initiatives and developments; • technological advances and consumer and industrial/commercial behavior, preferences and attitudes, in each case affecting energy generation, transmission, storage and consumption; • the nature and extent of governmental regulation, including environmental and other climate change-related regulation, regulation of financial and other derivative transactions and hedging activities, tax laws and regulations and laws and regulations with respect to the import and export of crude oil, NGLs, and natural gas and related commodities; • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including trading by commodity price speculators and others; • natural disasters, weather conditions and changes in weather patterns, each of which may be exacerbated by climate change; and • the economic and financial impact of epidemics, pandemics or other public health issues. The above-described factors and the volatility of commodity prices make it difficult to predict crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices in 2026 and thereafter. As a result, there can be no assurance that the prices for crude oil, NGLs and/or natural gas will sustain, or increase from, their current levels, nor can there be any assurance that the prices for crude oil, NGLs and/or natural gas will not decline. Our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations depend to a great extent on prevailing commodity prices. Accordingly, substantial and extended declines in commodity prices can materially and adversely affect the amount of cash flows we have available for our capital expenditures and operating costs; the terms on which we can access the credit and capital markets; our results of operations; and our financial condition, including (but not limited to) our ability to pay regular and special dividends on our common stock or repurchase shares of our common stock under the share repurchase authorization established by our Board of Directors (Board). As a result, the trading price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. 15 Lower commodity prices can also reduce the amount of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas that we can produce economically. Substantial and extended declines in the prices of these commodities can render uneconomic a portion of our exploration, development and exploitation projects, resulting in our having to make downward adjustments (“write-downs”) to our estimated reserves and also possibly shut in, or plug and abandon, certain wells. In addition, significant prolonged decreases in commodity prices may cause the expected future cash flows from our properties to fall below their respective net book values, which would require us to recognize an impairment expense in respect of the value of our properties. Such reserve write-downs and asset impairments can materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock. We have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. We make, and expect to continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves as well as for the gathering, processing and transportation of our production volumes. We intend to fund our capital expenditures primarily through our cash flows from operations and cash on hand and, if and as necessary, commercial paper borrowings, bank borrowings, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and public and private debt and equity offerings. Lower crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices, however, reduce our cash flows and could also delay or impair our ability to consummate any planned acquisitions or divestitures. Further, if the condition of the credit and capital markets materially declines, we might not be able to obtain financing on terms we consider acceptable, if at all. In addition, weakness and/or volatility in domestic and global financial markets or economic conditions or a depressed commodity price environment may increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to finance our capital expenditures through debt or equity offerings or other financing transactions. Similarly, a reduction in our cash flows (for example, as a result of lower crude oil, NGLs and/or natural gas prices or unanticipated well shut-ins) and the corresponding adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations may also increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay. A substantial increase in interest rates would decrease our net cash flows available for reinvestment (and, as noted above, for the payment of regular and special dividends on our common stock and for the repurchase of shares of our common stock). Any of these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock. Further, our ability to obtain financings, our borrowing costs and the terms of any financings are, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies. The interrelated factors that may impact our credit ratings include our debt levels; planned capital expenditures and sales of assets; near-term and long-term production growth opportunities; liquidity; asset quality; cost structure; product mix; and commodity pricing levels (including, but not limited to, the estimates and assumptions of credit rating agencies with respect to future commodity prices). We cannot provide any assurance that our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that our credit ratings will be raised in the future, nor can we provide any assurance that any of our credit ratings will not be lowered. In addition, companies in the oil and gas sector may be exposed to reputational risks and, in turn, certain financial risks. For example, certain financial institutions, investment advisors and sovereign wealth, pension and endowment funds, in response to concerns related to climate change and the requests and other influence of environmental groups and similar stakeholders, have from time to time elected to shift some or all of their investments and financing away from oil and gas-related sectors. Additional financial institutions and other investors may, in the future, elect to do likewise or may impose more stringent conditions with respect to investments in, and financing of, oil and gas-related sectors. As a result, fewer financial institutions and other investors may be willing to invest in, and provide capital to, companies in the oil and gas sector. A material reduction in capital available to the oil and gas sector could make it more difficult (e.g., due to a lack of investor interest in our debt or equity securities) and/or more costly (e.g., due to higher interest rates on our debt securities or other borrowings) to secure funding for our operations, which, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to successfully carry out our business strategy and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. 16 Our continued initiatives to increase operating efficiencies may not be successful in offsetting any future inflationary pressures on our operating costs and capital expenditures. We have undertaken (and continue to undertake) initiatives to increase our drilling, completions and operating efficiencies and improve the performance of our wells. Such initiatives include (among others): (i) our downhole drilling motor program; (ii) enhanced techniques for completing our wells; (iii) drilling extended laterals; and (iv) our self-sourced sand program. In addition, from time to time (when available and advantageous), we enter into agreements with service providers to secure the costs and availability of certain drilling and completions services we utilize as part of our operations. We plan to continue these initiatives and actions. However, such efforts may not be successful or may not be sufficient to offset the impacts of any future inflationary pressures (such as from tariffs, other trade barriers or other macroeconomic factors) on our operating costs and capital expenditures and, in turn, on our cash flows and results of operations. For additional discussion, see ITEM 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview – Recent Developments. Reserve estimates depend on many interpretations and assumptions. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations and assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves to be materially misstated. Estimating quantities of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows from such reserves is a complex, inexact process. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors, made by our management. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves to be overstated or understated. Also, the data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors, including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history, crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas prices, continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions and improvements and other changes in geological, geophysical and engineering evaluation methods. To prepare estimates of our economically recoverable crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from our reserves, we analyze many variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas. We also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, gathering, processing, compression, storage and transportation costs, severance, ad valorem and other applicable taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs. Many of these factors are or may be beyond our control. The quantities of reserves ultimately recovered and the future net cash flows from such reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance, including any significant downward revisions (“write-downs”) to our existing reserve estimates, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock. For related discussion, see ITEM 2, Properties - Oil and Gas Exploration and Production - Properties and Reserves and Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements. If we fail to acquire or find sufficient additional reserves over time, our reserves and production will decline from their current levels. The rate of production from crude oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are produced. Except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration, exploitation and development activities resulting in additional reserves, acquire additional properties containing reserves or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our reserves will decline as they are produced. Maintaining our production of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas at, or increasing our production from, current levels, is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves, which may be adversely impacted by bans or restrictions on leasing and/or drilling. To the extent we are unsuccessful in acquiring or finding additional reserves, our future cash flows and results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. 17 Our ability to declare and pay regular or special dividends on our common stock and repurchase shares of our common stock is subject to certain factors and considerations. Regular and special dividends on our common stock and repurchases of our common stock are authorized and determined by our Board in its sole discretion and depend upon a number of factors and considerations, including: • cash available for dividends or share repurchases; • our results of operations and anticipated future results of operations; • our financial condition, especially in relation to the anticipated future capital expenditures and other commitments requiring cash necessary to conduct our operations and carry out our business strategy; • our operating costs; • the levels of dividends paid by comparable companies; and • other factors our Board deems relevant. We expect to continue to pay dividends to our stockholders; however, our payment of dividends in the future is solely within the discretion of our Board. Accordingly, our Board may reduce our dividends or cease declaring dividends at any time, including if it determines that our current or forecasted future cash flows provided by our operating activities (after deducting our capital expenditures and other commitments requiring cash) are not sufficient to pay our desired levels of dividends to our stockholders or to pay dividends to our stockholders at all. Any reduction in the amount of dividends we pay to stockholders could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. In November 2021, our Board established a share repurchase authorization allowing for the repurchase by us of up to $5 billion of our common stock, which was subsequently increased by the Board, from $5 billion to $10 billion, in November 2024 (Share Repurchase Authorization). Beginning in March 2023, we have repurchased shares from time to time under the Share Repurchase Authorization. The timing and amount of repurchases is at the discretion of our management and depends on a variety of factors, including the trading price of our common stock, corporate and regulatory requirements, other market and economic conditions, the availability of cash to effect repurchases and our anticipated future capital expenditures and other commitments requiring cash. For further discussion regarding the Share Repurchase Authorization and our share repurchases thereunder, see ITEM 5, “Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” below. Our hedging activities may prevent us from fully benefiting from increases in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices and may expose us to other risks, including counterparty risk, and our future production may not be sufficiently protected from any declines in commodity prices by our existing or future hedging arrangements. We use financial derivative instruments (primarily financial basis swap, price swap, option, swaption and collar contracts) and, in certain cases, fixed price physical sales contracts to hedge the impact of fluctuations in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices on our results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to protect ourselves against commodity price declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of increases in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices above the prices established by our hedging contracts. Further, a majority of our forecasted production for 2026 is subject to fluctuating market prices. To the extent we do not hedge our production volumes for 2026 and beyond, we may be materially and adversely impacted by any declines in commodity prices, which may result in lower net cash provided by our operating activities. In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the counterparties to our financial derivative instruments fail to perform under the contracts. The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us may have a material and adverse effect on us. We have various customers for the crude oil, natural gas and related commodities that we produce as well as various other contractual counterparties, including financial institutions and affiliates of financial institutions. Domestic and global economic conditions, including the financial condition of financial institutions generally, may adversely affect the ability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us from time to time and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us, as well as their ability to access the credit and capital markets for such purposes. 18 Moreover, our customers and other contractual counterparties may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations to us for reasons unrelated to these conditions and factors, such as (i) the unavailability of required facilities or equipment due to mechanical failure or market conditions or (ii) financial, operational or strategic actions taken by the customer or counterparty that adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, in turn, its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations to us. Furthermore, if a customer is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation to purchase crude oil, natural gas or related commodities from us, we may be unable to sell such production to another customer on terms we consider acceptable, if at all, due to the geographic location of such production; the availability, proximity and capacity of appropriate gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, export, liquefaction and refining facilities; or market or other factors and conditions. The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us and/or to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to our Operations Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells is a high-risk activity and subjects us to a variety of risks that we cannot control. Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive crude oil, NGLs and/or natural gas reserves. As a result, we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells. Specifically, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells, and our drilling and completions operations and those of our third-party operators may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, the cost of such operations may increase and/or our results of operations and cash flows from such operations may be impacted, as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • leasehold title problems; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather events, such as winter storms, flooding, wildfires, tropical storms and hurricanes, and other natural disasters, which may be exacerbated by climate change; • compliance with, or changes in (including the adoption of new), environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, access to and use of water, disposal or other discharge (e.g., into injection wells) of produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes, laws and regulations imposing conditions or restrictions on drilling and completion operations and on the transportation of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, and other laws and regulations, such as tax laws and regulations; • the availability and timely issuance of required federal, state, tribal and other permits and licenses, which may be adversely affected by (among other things) bans or restrictions on drilling, government shutdowns or other suspensions of, or delays in, government services; • the availability of, costs associated with, and terms of contractual arrangements for properties, including mineral licenses and leases, pipelines, crude oil hauling trucks and qualified drivers and facilities and equipment to gather, process, compress, store, transport, market and export crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and related commodities; and • the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing services, pressure pumping equipment and supplies, tubular materials, water, sand, disposal facilities, qualified personnel and other necessary facilities, equipment, materials, supplies and services. Our failure to recover our investment in wells, increases in the costs of our drilling and completions operations or those of our third-party operators, and/or curtailments, delays or cancellations of our drilling and completions operations or those of our third-party operators, in each case, due to any of the above factors or other factors, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For related discussion of the risks and potential losses and liabilities inherent in our crude oil and natural gas operations generally, see the immediately following risk factor. 19 Our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas operations and supporting activities and operations involve many risks and expose us to potential losses and liabilities, and insurance may not fully protect us against these risks and potential losses and liabilities. Our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas operations and supporting activities and operations are subject to all of the risks associated with exploring and drilling for, and producing, gathering, processing, compressing, storing, transporting and exporting crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, including the risks of: • well blowouts and cratering; • loss of well control; • crude oil spills, natural gas leaks, formation water (i.e., produced water) spills and pipeline ruptures; • pipe failures and casing collapses; • uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, formation water or drilling fluids; • releases of chemicals, wastes or pollutants; • adverse weather events, such as winter storms, flooding, wildfires, tropical storms and hurricanes, and other natural disasters, which may be exacerbated by climate change; • fires and explosions; • terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cyber breaches and related threats; • formations with abnormal or unexpected pressures; • leaks or spills in connection with, or associated with, the gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation and export of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas; and • malfunctions of, or damage to, gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation and export facilities and equipment and other facilities and equipment utilized in support of our crude oil and natural gas operations. If any of these events occur, we could incur losses, liabilities and other costs as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • damage to, or destruction of, property, facilities, equipment and crude oil and natural gas reservoirs; • pollution or other environmental damage; • regulatory investigations, penalties and injunctions as well as cleanup and remediation responsibilities and costs; • the lack of availability of, or access to, necessary third-party services and facilities, such as gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation and export services and facilities; • loss of production due to temporary cessation of our operations (for example, to conduct repairs necessary to resume operations) or damage to necessary facilities and equipment; and • compliance with laws and regulations enacted as a result of such events. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, such losses and liabilities in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable. However, the occurrence of any of these events and any losses or liabilities incurred as a result of such events, if uninsured or in excess of our insurance coverage, would reduce the funds available to us for our operations and could, in turn, have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, in the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates or at all. As a result of market conditions, premiums, retentions and deductibles for our insurance policies will change over time and could increase. In addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable or unavailable on economically acceptable terms. 20 Our ability to sell and deliver our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas production could be materially and adversely affected if adequate gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining, liquefaction and export facilities and equipment are unavailable. The sale of our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining, liquefaction and export facilities and equipment owned by third parties. These facilities and equipment may be temporarily unavailable to us due to market conditions, supply chain disruptions, regulatory reasons, mechanical reasons or other factors or conditions, and may not be available to us in the future on terms we consider acceptable, if at all. In particular, in certain newer plays, the capacity of gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining, liquefaction and export facilities and equipment may not be sufficient to accommodate potential production from existing and new wells. In addition, lack of financing, construction and permitting delays, permitting costs and regulatory or other constraints could limit or delay the construction, manufacture or other acquisition of new gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining, liquefaction and export facilities and equipment by third parties or us, and we may experience delays or increased costs in accessing the pipelines, gathering systems or transportation systems necessary to transport our production to points of sale or delivery. Any significant change in market or other conditions affecting gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining, liquefaction and export facilities and equipment or the availability of these facilities and equipment, including due to our failure or inability to obtain access to these facilities and equipment on terms acceptable to us or at all, could materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas production may be subject to interruptions that could have a material and adverse effect on us. A portion of our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas production may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for various reasons, including, but not limited to, as a result of accidents, weather conditions or natural disasters, the unavailability of gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining, liquefaction or export facilities or equipment or field labor issues, or intentionally as a result of market conditions such as crude oil, NGLs or natural gas prices that we deem uneconomic. If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted or shut in, our cash flows and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our operations are substantially dependent upon the availability of water. Restrictions or limitations on our ability to obtain water may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Water is an essential component of our operations, both during drilling operations and completions operations. Limitations or restrictions on our ability to secure sufficient amounts of water (including limitations resulting from natural causes such as drought) could materially and adversely impact our operations. Further, severe drought conditions can result in local authorities taking steps to restrict the use of water in their jurisdiction for drilling and completions in order to protect the local water supply. If we are unable to obtain water to use in our operations from local sources, we may need to obtain water from sources that are more distant from our drilling sites, resulting in increased costs, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we acquire crude oil, NGLs or natural gas properties, our failure to fully identify existing and potential issues, to accurately estimate reserves, production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we acquire crude oil and natural gas properties. Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe are diligent and consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential issues (such as title defects or environmental issues), nor may they permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to fully assess their deficiencies and potential. Even when issues with a property are identified, we often may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements. 21 In addition, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves (as discussed further above), actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties. Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates. In addition, an acquisition may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly during the periods in which the operations of the acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our ongoing operations or achieve anticipated synergies. Competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry is intense, and some of our competitors have greater resources than we have. We compete with major integrated oil and gas companies, government-affiliated oil and gas companies and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of licenses, concessions and leases, properties and reserves and access to the facilities, equipment, materials, services and employees and other personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) necessary to explore for, develop, produce, market and transport crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. Certain of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those we possess and have established strategic long-term positions or strong governmental relationships in countries or areas in which we may seek new or expanded entry. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights or in accessing and retaining necessary services, facilities, equipment, materials and personnel. In addition, our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production and the cost and availability of alternative fuels. We also face competition from alternative energy sources, such as renewable energy sources. Risks Related to Sustainability, Regulatory and Legal Matters Developments and concerns related to climate change may have a material and adverse effect on us. Governmental and regulatory bodies, investors, consumers, industry and other stakeholders have been focused on climate change matters in recent years. For example, (i) in March 2024, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) finalized extensive climate-related disclosure rules that would require U.S. public companies to significantly expand the climate-related disclosures in their SEC filings (although these rules have been stayed in abeyance by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit until such time as the SEC reconsiders the challenged rules by notice-and-comment rulemaking or renews its defense of the rules), (ii) in September 2023, California passed climate-related disclosure mandates which are broader than the SEC's final rules and (iii) in November 2023, the European Union approved methane emissions limits on crude oil and natural gas imports beginning in 2030. This focus, together with changes in consumer and industrial/commercial behavior, preferences and attitudes with respect to the generation and consumption of energy, the use of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and the use of products manufactured with, or powered by, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, may result in (i) the enactment of climate change-related regulations, policies and initiatives (at the government, corporate and/or investor community levels), including alternative energy requirements, energy conservation measures and emissions-related legislation, (ii) technological advances with respect to the generation, transmission, storage and consumption of energy (e.g., wind, solar and hydrogen power, smart grid technology and battery technology) and (iii) increased availability of, and increased consumer and industrial/commercial demand for, non-hydrocarbon energy sources (e.g., alternative energy sources. such as renewable energy sources) and products manufactured with, or powered by, non-hydrocarbon sources (e.g., electric vehicles and renewable residential and commercial power supplies). These developments may adversely affect the demand for products manufactured with, or powered by, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and the demand for, and in turn the prices of, the crude oil, NGLs and natural gas that we sell. See the risk factors above for a discussion of the impact of commodity prices (including fluctuations in commodity prices) on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In addition to potentially adversely affecting the demand for, and prices of, the crude oil, NGLs and natural gas that we produce and sell, such developments may also adversely impact, among other things, the availability to us of necessary third-party services and facilities that we rely on, which may increase our operational costs and adversely affect our ability to explore for, produce, transport and process crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and successfully carry out our business strategy. For further discussion of the potential impact of such availability-related risks on our financial condition and results of operations, see the discussion in the section above entitled "Risks Related to our Operations." 22 Further, climate change-related developments (such as the climate-related disclosure mandates referenced above) may result in negative perceptions of the oil and gas industry and, in turn, reputational risks associated with the exploration for, and production of, hydrocarbons. Such negative perceptions and reputational risks may adversely affect our ability to successfully carry out our business strategy, for example, by adversely affecting the availability and cost of capital to us. For further discussion of the potential impact of such risks on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, see the discussion below in this section and in the section above entitled "Risks Related to Our Operations." In addition, the enactment of climate change-related regulations, policies and initiatives (at the government, corporate and/or investor community levels) may also result in increases in our compliance costs and other operating costs. For further discussion regarding the risks to us of climate change-related regulations, policies and initiatives, see the discussion in this section. Also, continuing political and social concerns relating to climate change may have adverse effects on our business and operations, such as a greater potential for shareholder activism, governmental inquiries and enforcement actions and litigation (including, but not limited to, litigation brought by governmental entities and shareholder litigation) and resulting expenses and potential disruption to our day-to-day operations. Regulatory, legislative and policy changes may materially and adversely affect the oil and gas exploration and production industry. New or revised rules, regulations and policies may be issued, and new legislation may be enacted, that could impact the oil and gas exploration and production industry. Such rules, regulations, policies and legislation may affect, among other things, (i) permitting for oil and gas drilling on state, tribal and federal lands, (ii) the leasing of state, tribal and federal lands for oil and gas development, (iii) the regulation and disclosure of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and/or other climate change-related matters associated with oil and gas operations, (iv) the use of hydraulic fracturing on state, tribal and federal lands, (v) the calculation of royalty payments in respect of oil and gas production from state, tribal and federal lands (including, but not limited to, applicable royalty percentages), (vi) U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to oil and gas exploration and production companies and (vii) the use of financial derivative instruments to hedge the financial impact of fluctuations in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices. Further, such regulatory, legislative and policy changes may, among other things, result in additional permitting and disclosure requirements, additional operating restrictions and/or the imposition of various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completions operations or other aspects of our business, any of which could lead to operational delays, increased operating and compliance costs and/or other impacts on our business and operations and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and capital expenditures. For related discussion, see the below risk factors regarding legislative and regulatory matters impacting the oil and gas exploration and production industry and the discussion in ITEM 1, Business - Regulation. We incur certain costs to comply with government regulations, particularly regulations relating to environmental protection and safety, and could incur even greater costs in the future. Our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas operations and supporting activities are regulated extensively by federal, state, tribal and local governments and regulatory agencies, both domestically and in the foreign countries in which we do business, and are subject to interruption or termination by governmental and regulatory authorities based on environmental, health, safety or other considerations. Moreover, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs in our efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental, health, safety and other regulations. Further, the regulatory environment could change in ways that we cannot predict and that might substantially increase our costs of compliance and/or adversely affect our business and operations and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital expenditures. Specifically, as a current or past owner or lessee and operator of crude oil and natural gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, tribal, local and foreign regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment. These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from current or past operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas. Changes in, or additions to, these regulations, could lead to increased operating and compliance costs and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and capital expenditures. 23 The regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state and local level through permitting and other compliance requirements and, further, some state and local governments have imposed or have considered imposing various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completions operations. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) has, however, issued certain regulations relating to hydraulic fracturing and there have been various other proposals to regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level. Any new requirements, restrictions, conditions or prohibitions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, further, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing. Accordingly, our production of crude oil and natural gas could be materially and adversely affected. For additional discussion regarding hydraulic fracturing regulation, see Regulation of Hydraulic Fracturing and Other Operations - United States under ITEM 1, Business - Regulation. We will continue to monitor and assess any proposed or new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas where we operate to determine the impact on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and capital expenditures. Regulations, government policies and government and corporate initiatives relating to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change could have a significant impact on our operations and we could incur significant cost in the future to comply. Local, state, federal and international regulatory bodies have been focused on GHG emissions and climate change issues in recent years. For discussion of the rules and regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA and the Bureau of Land Management with respect to GHG emissions and related matters and the related actions taken by the U.S. Congress, see ITEM 1, Business – Regulation – Climate Change – United States. At the international level, the Paris Agreement calls for nations to undertake efforts with respect to global temperatures and GHG emissions and the UAE Consensus calls on parties, including the U.S., to contribute to the transitioning away from fossil fuels, reduce methane emissions, and increase renewable energy capacity, among other things, to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. The U.S. withdrew from the Paris Agreement effective January 27, 2026 and, on January 7, 2026, it was announced that the U.S. will also withdraw from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. For further discussion regarding the Paris Agreement, the UAE Consensus and related matters, see ITEM 1, Business – Regulation – Climate Change – United States. State and local officials may, however, continue efforts to uphold the commitments set forth in the international accord. It is possible that the Paris Agreement, the related UAE Consensus, and subsequent domestic and international regulations and government policies related to climate change and GHG emissions will have adverse effects on the market for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas as well as adverse effects on the business and operations of companies engaged in the exploration for, and production of, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future investigations, laws, regulations, treaties or policies regarding climate change and GHG emissions (including any laws and regulations that may be enacted in the U.S.), but the direct and indirect costs of such developments (if enacted, issued or applied) could materially and adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations and capital expenditures. The potential increase in the costs of our operations could include costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions, pay taxes or fees related to our GHG emissions, or administer and manage a GHG emissions program. In addition, changes in regulatory policies that result in a reduction in the demand for hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to GHG emissions, or restrictions on their use, could also adversely affect market demand for, and in turn the prices we receive for our production of, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. For additional discussion regarding the regulation of GHG emissions and climate change generally, see ITEM 1, Business – Regulation. 24 Our initiatives, targets and ambitions related to emissions and other environmental or safety-related matters, including our related public statements and disclosures, are subject to various factors, contingencies and uncertainties and may expose us to certain risks. We have developed, and will continue to develop, targets and ambitions related to our environmental and safety initiatives, including, but not limited to, our current emissions targets. Our public disclosures and other statements related to these initiatives, targets and ambitions reflect our plans and expectations at the time such disclosures and statements are made and are not a guarantee the initiatives will be successfully developed, implemented and carried out or that the targets or ambitions will be achieved or achieved on the anticipated timelines or that, if achieved, will be sustained. Our ability to achieve and, if achieved, sustain these targets and ambitions is subject to numerous factors and contingencies, some of which are outside of our control and include (among other commercial, operational, technological, financial, legal and regulatory factors and contingencies) evolving government regulation, the pace of changes in technology, the successful development and deployment of existing or new technologies and business solutions on a commercial scale, the availability, timing and cost of necessary equipment, goods, services and personnel, and the availability of requisite financing and federal and state incentive programs. As both emissions sources and emissions measurements and related technologies, regulations, protocols and methodologies continue to evolve, the emissions that will be included in our emissions inventory may change. This means our current targets using calculations and forecasts of our current emissions inventory could be more challenging to meet and sustain if our emissions inventory expands due to evolving practices and/or new regulations. This means a target that we have achieved and maintained in the past could be more challenging to meet and sustain if our emissions inventory changes. Also, while there is rapid evolution taking place in the technologies we may be able to use to reduce emissions and achieve and maintain our targets, the timing, cost and anticipated success of these technologies may change. These uncertainties, evolving practices and regulations and challenges around emissions measurement and reporting and emissions reduction technologies may result in our revising our existing targets and/or setting new targets. In addition, the pursuit and achievement of our current or future initiatives, targets and ambitions relating to the reduction of GHG emissions and other environmental or safety-related initiatives may increase our costs – for example, by requiring us to purchase emissions credits or offsets, the availability and price of which are outside of our control - and may impact or otherwise limit our ability to execute on our business strategy. Also, our continuing efforts to research, establish, accomplish and accurately report on our emissions and other environmental or safety-related initiatives, targets and ambitions may create additional operational risks and expenses and expose us to reputational, legal and other risks. In addition, from time to time there has been particular investor and regulatory focus on environmental and social matters, including, in addition to climate change, human rights and human capital management matters. If our related initiatives, targets and ambitions do not meet our investors' or other stakeholders' evolving expectations and standards, investment in our stock may be viewed as less attractive and our reputation, relationships with investors and other business relationships may be adversely impacted. Lastly, as noted above, the SEC, in March 2024, finalized extensive climate-related disclosure rules that would require U.S. public companies to significantly expand the climate-related disclosures in their SEC filings (although these rules have been stayed in abeyance by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit until such time as the SEC reconsiders the challenged rules by notice-and-comment rulemaking or renews its defense of the rules). To the extent the rules are implemented, we could incur increased costs related to the assessment and disclosure of climate-related information. Tax laws and regulations, including those applicable specifically to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, may change over time, and such changes could materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, legislation has been proposed that, if enacted into law, would make significant changes to U.S. federal and state income tax laws, including laws specifically applicable to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies - such as eliminating the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs. No accurate prediction can be made as to whether any such legislative changes or similar or other tax law changes will be proposed or enacted. Further, no accurate prediction can be made as to what the specific provisions or impact on EOG of any such enacted legislation would be. 25 In addition, certain countries, including countries where EOG currently has operations or may in the future have operations, have implemented (via legislation), or may implement, a global minimum tax (GMT). While such GMT legislation has had, to date, no material impact on EOG, no accurate prediction can be made as to (i) which additional countries or jurisdictions will participate and enact GMT legislation and (ii) what the impact on EOG of any such enacted GMT legislation would be. Recent changes to the GMT rules would exempt U.S. multinationals (like EOG) from certain of its provisions after 2025, if ultimately legislated into law in the countries where EOG has current or may have future operations. The elimination or postponement of certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, as well as any other changes to, or the imposition of new, U.S. federal, state, local or non-U.S. (i.e., foreign) taxes (including the imposition of, or increases in, production, severance or similar taxes or the enactment of a GMT or similar tax), could materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, legislation may be proposed with respect to the enactment of a tax levied on the carbon content of fuels based on the GHG emissions associated with such fuels. A carbon tax, whether imposed on producers or consumers, would generally increase the prices for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. Such price increases may, in turn, reduce demand for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any proposed or enacted tax law changes, but any such changes (if enacted) may materially and adversely affect our business. We will continue to monitor and assess any proposed or enacted tax law changes to determine the impact on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition and take appropriate actions, where necessary. Risks Related to Our International Operations We operate in other countries and, as a result, are subject to certain political, economic, competitive and other risks. Our operations in jurisdictions outside the U.S. are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations. These risks include, among other risks: • increases in taxes and governmental royalties; • additional and potentially unfamiliar laws and policies governing the operations of foreign-based companies and changes in such laws and policies; • loss of revenue, loss of or damage to equipment, property and other assets and interruption of operations as a result of expropriation, nationalization, acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks; • unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities; • difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations; • competition from companies that have established strategic long-term positions or have strong governmental relationships in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; and • currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations. Our international operations may also be adversely affected by U.S. laws and policies affecting foreign trade and taxation, including tariffs and trade or other economic sanctions; modifications to, or withdrawal from, international trade treaties; and U.S. laws with respect to participation in boycotts that are not supported by the U.S. government. The realization of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Other External Factors Our business could be materially and adversely affected by security threats, including cyber threats and cyber attacks, and other disruptions. As an oil and gas producer, we face various security threats, including (i) cyber threats to gain unauthorized access to, or control of, our sensitive information or to render our data or systems corrupted or unusable; (ii) threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or to the security of third-party facilities and infrastructure, such as gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, refining, liquefaction and export facilities; and (iii) threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats has subjected our operations to increased risks that could have a material and adverse effect on our business. 26 We rely extensively on information technology systems, including internally developed software, data hosting platforms, real-time data acquisition systems, third-party software, cloud services and other internally or externally hosted hardware and software platforms, to (i) estimate our oil and gas reserves, (ii) process and record financial and operating data, (iii) process and analyze all stages of our business operations, including exploration, drilling, completions, production, gathering and processing, transportation, pipelines and other related activities and (iv) communicate with, and make payments to, our employees and vendors, suppliers and other third parties. Further, our reliance on technology has increased due to the increased use of personal devices and remote communications. Although we have implemented and invested in, and will continue to implement and invest in, controls, procedures and protections (including internal and external personnel) that are designed to protect our systems, identify and remediate on a regular basis vulnerabilities in our systems and related infrastructure and monitor and mitigate the risk of data loss and other cyber threats, such measures cannot entirely eliminate cyber threats and the controls, procedures and protections we have implemented and invested in may prove to be ineffective. Our systems and networks, and those of our business associates, may become the target of cyber attacks, including, without limitation, denial-of-service attacks; malicious software; data privacy breaches by employees, insiders or others with authorized access; phishing attacks; ransomware; attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and systems; and other electronic security breaches. Security incidents can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, such as physical theft. More recently, advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) may pose serious risks for many of the traditional tools used to identify individuals, including voice recognition (whether by machine or the human ear), facial recognition or screening questions to confirm identities. In addition, generative AI systems may also be used by malicious actors to create more sophisticated cyber attacks (i.e., more realistic phishing or other attacks). The advancements in AI could also lead to an increase in the frequency of identity fraud or cyber attacks (whether successful or unsuccessful), which could cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel, protection technologies and policies and procedures, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. If any of these security breaches were to occur, we could suffer disruptions to our normal operations, including our drilling, completion, production and corporate functions, which could materially and adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including, but not limited to, the following: • unauthorized access to, and release of, our business data, reserves information, strategic information or other sensitive or proprietary information, which could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to compete for oil and gas resources, or reduce our competitive advantage over other companies; • data corruption, communication interruption, or other operational disruptions during our drilling activities, which could result in our failure to reach the intended target or a drilling incident; • data corruption or operational disruptions of our production-related infrastructure, which could result in loss of production or accidental discharges; • unauthorized access to, and release of, personal information of our royalty owners, employees and vendors, which could expose us to allegations that we did not sufficiently protect such information; • a cyber attack on a vendor or service provider, which could result in supply chain disruptions and could delay or halt our operations; • a cyber attack on third-party gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, refining, liquefaction or export facilities, which could result in reduced demand for our production or delay or prevent us from transporting and marketing our production, in either case resulting in a loss of revenues; • a cyber attack involving commodities exchanges or financial institutions could slow or halt commodities trading, thus preventing us from marketing our production or engaging in hedging activities, resulting in a loss of revenues; • a deliberate corruption of our financial or operating data could result in events of non-compliance which could then lead to regulatory fines or penalties; • a cyber attack on a communications network or power grid, which could cause operational disruptions resulting in a loss of revenues; and • a cyber attack on our automated and surveillance systems, which could cause a loss of production and potential environmental hazards. Further, strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at a greater risk of terrorist attacks or cyber attacks than other targets in the United States. Moreover, external digital technologies control nearly all of the crude oil and natural gas distribution systems in the U.S. and abroad, which are necessary to transport and market our production. A cyber attack directed at, for example, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas distribution systems could (i) damage critical distribution and storage assets or the environment; (ii) disrupt energy supplies and markets, by delaying or preventing delivery of production to markets; and (iii) make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. 27 Any such terrorist attack or cyber attack that affects us, our customers, suppliers, or others with whom we do business and/or energy-related assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, including disruption of our operations, damage to our reputation, a loss of counterparty trust, reimbursement or other costs, increased compliance costs, significant litigation exposure and legal liability or regulatory fines, penalties or intervention. Although we have business continuity plans in place, our operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our systems and the infrastructure that supports our business. While we continue to evolve and modify our business continuity plans as well as our cyber threat detection and mitigation systems, there can be no assurance that they will be effective in avoiding disruption and business impacts. Further, our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all resulting losses, and the cost to obtain adequate coverage may increase for us in the future and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. While we have experienced limited cyber incidents in the past, we have not had, to date, any business interruptions or material losses from breaches of our information technology systems and related infrastructure. However, there is no assurance that we will not suffer any such interruptions or losses in the future. Further, as technologies evolve and cyber threats become more sophisticated, we are continually expending additional resources to modify or enhance our security measures to protect against such threats and to identify and remediate on a regular basis any vulnerabilities in our information systems and related infrastructure that may be detected, and these expenditures in the future may be significant. Additionally, the continuing and evolving threat of cyber attacks has resulted in evolving legal and compliance matters, including increased regulatory focus on prevention and new disclosure requirements recently enacted by the SEC with respect to material cyber incidents and cyber risk management, strategy and governance, which could require us to expend significant additional resources to meet such requirements. Terrorist activities and military and other actions could materially and adversely affect us. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks (including cyber-related attacks), whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response to these acts, could cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. The U.S. government has from time to time issued public warnings that indicate that energy-related assets, such as transportation and refining facilities, might be specific targets of terrorist organizations. Any such actions and the threat of such actions, including any resulting political instability or societal disruption, could materially and adversely affect us in unpredictable ways, including, but not limited to, the disruption of energy supplies and markets, the reduction of overall demand for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, increased volatility in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices or the possibility that the facilities and other infrastructure on which we rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terrorism, and, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.