{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":379138,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
ITEM 1. BUSINESS. ​ The Kroger Co. (the “Company” or “Kroger”) was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902. Our Company is built on the foundation of our retail grocery business, which includes the added convenience of our retail pharmacies and fuel centers. Our strategy is focused on growing households and increasing customer loyalty by delivering great value and convenience, and investing in Fresh, Our Brands , Personalization and eCommerce. ​ We utilize the data and traffic generated by our retail business to create personalized experiences and value for our customers. This data and traffic also enable our fast-growing, high operating margin alternative profit business, including third-party media revenue. In turn, the value generated from these businesses enables us to reinvest back into our retail business. ​ Our revenues are predominately earned and cash is generated as consumer products are sold to customers in our stores and fuel centers and via our online platforms. We earn income predominately by selling products at price levels that produce revenues in excess of the costs we incur to make these products available to our customers. Such costs include procurement and distribution costs, facility occupancy and operational costs, and overhead expenses. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31. All references to 2025, 2024 and 2023 are to the fiscal years ended January 31, 2026, February 1, 2025 and February 3, 2024, respectively, unless specifically indicated otherwise. ​ We maintain a web site (www.thekrogerco.com) that includes additional information about the Company. Kroger’s website and any reports or other information made available by Kroger through its website are not part of or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available through our web site, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and our interactive data files, including amendments. These forms are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed them with, or furnished them electronically to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), and are also available at www.sec.gov. ​ Kroger is diversified across brands, product categories, channels of distribution, geographies and consumer demographics. Our combination of assets includes the following: ​ Stores ​ As of January 31, 2026, Kroger operates supermarkets under a variety of local banner names in 35 states and the District of Columbia. As of January 31, 2026, Kroger operated, either directly or through its subsidiaries, 2,697 supermarkets, of which 2,250 had pharmacies and 1,731 had fuel centers. Approximately 51% of our supermarkets were operated in Company-owned facilities, including some Company-owned buildings on leased land. Our stores operate under a variety of banners that have strong local ties and brand recognition. We connect with customers through our growing network of in-store and digital shopping options, delivering a consistent full, fresh and friendly customer experience. Fuel sales are an important part of our revenue, net earnings and loyalty offering. Our fuel strategy is to include a fuel center at each of our supermarket locations when it is feasible and it is expected to be profitable. Each fuel center typically includes four to nine islands of fuel dispensers and storage tanks with capacity for 35,000 to 50,000 gallons of fuel. ​ 3 We intend to continue investing in new store growth as a key driver of long-term value creation. New stores allow us to increase penetration in existing markets, enter new geographies and reach new customers. We expect new store development to contribute to improved return on invested capital, volume growth and stronger market share performance. ​ eCommerce ​ We offer a convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of how they choose to shop with us, including Pickup and Delivery. We offer Pickup and Harris Teeter ExpressLane™ — personalized, order online, pick up at the store services — at 2,408 of our supermarkets and provide Delivery, which allows us to offer digital solutions to substantially all of our customers. Our Delivery solutions include orders delivered to customers from retail store locations, customer fulfillment centers and orders placed through third-party platforms. These channels allow us to serve customers anything, anytime and anywhere with broad selection, convenience, and price. We also provide relevant customer-facing apps and interfaces that have the features customers want and that are also reliable, easy to use and deliver a seamless customer experience across our store and digital channels. We continue to make meaningful improvements in our eCommerce business and believe it will be an important growth driver and one of the key ways to attract new households. ​ Media ​ Kroger Precision Marketing, our retail media business, leverages our rich first-party data and deep customer relationships to provide targeted, measurable advertising solutions for consumer-packaged goods companies and a growing number of other industry partners. With insights drawn from the shopping behaviors of millions of loyal households, Kroger Precision Marketing enables advertisers to reach customers with relevant messaging across a variety of digital and in-store channels, including on-site search, display, social media, connected TV, and in-store placements. We believe our retail media business represents a significant and growing opportunity. As advertisers increasingly seek returns on media, the ability to connect advertising spend directly to actual purchase behavior, Kroger Precision Marketing is uniquely positioned to deliver that capability at scale. Our ability to link media impressions directly to household transactions across both digital and in-store purchases provides our advertising partners with best-in-class performance measurement. Kroger Precision Marketing is a key contributor to our alternative profit strategy, which focuses on generating revenue from assets and capabilities that complement our core grocery business. The retail media business carries an attractive margin profile relative to our traditional operations and is an important driver of our digital profitability. We intend to continue investing in the technology, talent, and collaborations needed to grow this business and expand the range of solutions we offer to advertisers. ​ Our Data ​ Kroger serves approximately 63 million households annually, and because of our rewards program, over 95% of customer transactions are tethered to a Kroger loyalty card. Our over 20 years of investment in data science capabilities allows us to utilize this data to create personalized experiences and value for our customers and enables our growing, high operating margin alternative profit businesses, including data analytic services and third-party media revenue. ​ 4 Merchandising and Our Brands ​ Our Brands play an important role in our merchandising strategy and represented over $39 billion of our sales in 2025. Our Brands include (i) items produced in our food production plants or by outside manufacturers that display the name of any Kroger registered trademark or brand and (ii) certain fresh and service‑case products that may not bear a Kroger registered trademark or brand but are sourced, produced or prepared in accordance with our merchandising and quality standards. Our supermarkets, on average, stock over 13,000 private label items. Our Brands products are primarily produced and sold in three “tiers.” Private Selection® is our main premium quality brand, offering customers culinary foods and ingredients that deliver extraordinary eating experiences. The Kroger® brand, which represents the majority of our private label items, is designed to consistently satisfy and delight customers with quality products that exceed or meet the national brand in taste and efficacy. Smart Way® is our value brand, designed to deliver good quality at an affordable price. In addition to our three “tiers,” Our Brands offers customers a variety of natural and organic products with the Simple Truth® brand. Simple Truth® is free from unwanted ingredients and delivers our best natural and organic products for any lifestyle. ​ Approximately 20% of Our Brands units sold in our supermarkets are produced in our food production plants. The remaining Our Brands items are produced to our strict specifications by outside manufacturers. We perform a “make or buy” analysis on Our Brands products and decisions are based upon a comparison of market-based transfer price versus open market purchases. As of January 31, 2026, we owned 33 food production plants. These plants consisted of 14 dairies, nine deli or bakery plants, five grocery product plants, two beverage plants, one meat plant and two cheese plants. ​ SEASONALITY ​ The majority of our revenues are generally not seasonal in nature. However, revenues tend to be higher during the major holidays throughout the year. Additionally, certain significant events including inclement weather systems, particularly winter storms, tend to affect our sales trends. ​ HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT ​ Our People ​ We want Kroger to be a place where our customers love to shop and our associates love to work. This is why we aim to create working environments where associates feel encouraged and supported to be their best selves every day. As of January 31, 2026, Kroger employed more than 403,000 full- and part-time employees. Our people are essential to our success, and we focus intentionally on attracting, developing and engaging a diverse workforce that represents the communities we serve. We strive to create a culture of opportunity and take seriously our role as a leading employer in the United States. Kroger provides a large number of people with first jobs, new beginnings and lifelong careers and we have long been guided by Our Values — Honesty, Integrity, Respect, Safety, Diversity and Inclusion. ​ Attracting & Developing Our Talent ​ To deliver on our customers’ experiences and remain competitive with union and non-union employers, we continually try to improve how we attract and retain talent. In addition to competitive wages, high-quality benefits and a safe work environment, we offer a broad range of employment opportunities for workers of all ages and aspirations. Many retail roles offer opportunities to learn new skills, where new associates come for a job and discover a career. ​ Associates at all levels of Kroger have access to training and education programs to build their skills and prepare for new roles. In 2025, we spent approximately $183 million on training our associates through onboarding, leadership development programs and programs designed to upskill associates across the Company. We continue to invest in new platforms and applications to make learning more accessible to our associates. ​ Beyond our own training programs, associates can take advantage of our tuition reimbursement benefit, which offers up to $3,500 annually — $21,000 over the course of employment — toward continuing education. These funds can be applied to education programs like certifications, associate or graduate degrees. Approximately 6,100 associates, 92% of whom are paid on an hourly basis, took advantage of our tuition reimbursement program in 2025. Kroger has invested approximately $76 million in this program since it launched in 2018. 5 Rewarding Our Associates ​ As we continue to operate in a challenging labor market, we are dedicated to attracting and retaining the right talent across the organization to be able to continue delivering for our customers. We are investing in our associates by expanding our industry-leading benefits, including continuing education, training and development and health and wellness. During 2025, we increased associate wages, resulting in an average hourly rate of more than $20, and a rate of more than $26 with comprehensive benefits factored in, which is a 43% increase in rate in the last eight years. We remain committed to supporting our associates with investments in wages and comprehensive benefits that are sustainable and will allow us to continue to keep products affordable for the communities we serve. We expect to make continued associate investments in 2026. ​ Creating a Safe Environment ​ Our associates’ safety is a top priority and one of our core values. We prioritize providing the right safety training and equipment, safe working conditions and resources to maintain and improve associates’ well-being. Through our strategy to set clear expectations, routine monitoring, and regular communication and engagement, we strive to reduce the number of injuries and accidents that happen in our workplaces. We track health and safety metrics centrally for an enterprise-wide view of issues, trends and opportunities and monitor associate injury performance including total injuries, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) injury rates, and lost-time injuries, as well as customer injury metrics like slip-and-fall injuries. We also track the completion of required training for associates, and we regularly share these metrics with leaders and relevant team members to inform management decisions. ​ Supporting Labor Relations ​ More than two-thirds of our associates are covered by collective bargaining agreements negotiated with local unions affiliated with one of several different international unions. There are approximately 350 such agreements, usually with terms of three to five years. Wages, health care and pensions are included in all of these collective bargaining agreements. Our objective is to negotiate contracts that balance wage increases so those wages are competitive with union and non-union employers, provide affordable healthcare for associates and keep groceries affordable for the communities we serve. Our obligation is to do this in a way that maintains a financially sustainable business. ​ CLIMATE RESILIENCIES ​ Managing greenhouse gas emissions to reduce our impact on the environment is an important part of Thriving Together, our responsible business strategy, and has been a focus for our business for many years. With a large portfolio of supermarkets, distribution warehouses, and food production plants, as well as a complex supply chain, we continue to take steps to reduce both the effects of our operations on the environment and the potential effects of a changing climate on our operations. ​ To help identify and manage climate-related risks to our business, we conduct a periodic quantitative climate risk assessment to determine the likelihood that different physical climate risks, including drought, extreme heat and extreme precipitation, would affect our operations at representative facilities in different geographies and, in turn, potentially increase operating costs for these facilities. As a result of our past risk assessments, we do not currently anticipate the modeled physical risks to adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows for the foreseeable future. We expect to disclose results of an updated climate risk assessment in the next reporting year. ​ We also acknowledge that climate-related legislation can affect our business. As a result of current state and federal requirements regarding the phasedown of hydrofluorocarbon (“HFC”) refrigerants, we are steadily replacing our refrigerant infrastructure to reach required levels, which incurs capital costs to the business. Any such legislation affects all retailers using refrigerants in their operations. We also monitor utility and technology availability and costs to help anticipate how these could affect our business operations in the future. ​ To help prepare for and manage a variety of risk scenarios, including natural disasters and business disruptions to our supply chain, we maintain more than 200 business continuity plans. We have installed technologies and processes to ensure our supermarkets, food production plants, fulfillment centers and supply chain can respond quickly and remain operational to serve our customers. ​ 6 This topic is managed by leadership with input from several departments across the business. The Public Responsibilities Committee of the Board of Directors oversees our responsibilities as a responsible business and our practices related to environmental sustainability, including potential climate effects, along with other environmental and social topics of material importance. ​ INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS ​ The following is a list of the names and ages of the executive officers and the positions held by each such person as of March 25, 2026. Except as otherwise noted, each person has held office for at least five years. Each officer will hold office at the discretion of the Board for the ensuing year until removed or replaced. ​ Name Name ​ Age ​ Recent Employment History ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Mary E. Adcock ​ 50 ​ Ms. Adcock was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Merchant and Marketing Officer in March 2025 and is responsible for sales and category planning for fresh foods, center store and general merchandise categories, as well as analytics & execution, e-commerce and digital merchandising, fuel, manufacturing and Our Brands . Prior to that, Ms. Adcock served as Senior Vice President and Chief Merchant and Marketing Officer from December 2024 to March 2025. From May 2019 to December 2024, she served as Senior Vice President of Retail Operations, and from June 2016 to April 2019, she served as Group Vice President of Retail Operations. Prior to that, Ms. Adcock held leadership roles in Kroger’s Columbus Division, including Vice President of Operations and Vice President of Merchandising. Prior to that, she served as Vice President of Natural Foods Merchandising and as Vice President of Deli/Bakery Manufacturing and held several leadership positions in the manufacturing department, including human resources manager, general manager and division operations manager. Ms. Adcock joined Kroger in 1999 as human resources assistant manager at the Country Oven Bakery in Bowling Green, Kentucky. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Yael Cosset ​ 52 ​ Mr. Cosset was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Digital Officer in March 2025 and is responsible for leading Kroger’s digital strategy, focused on building Kroger’s presence in the marketplace in digital channels, personalization and e-commerce. He is also responsible for Kroger’s alternative profit businesses, including Kroger’s data analytics subsidiary, 84.51° LLC, and Kroger Personal Finance. From May 2019 to March 2025, Mr. Cosset served as Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Prior to that, he served as Group Vice President and Chief Digital Officer, and also as Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Information Officer of 84.51° LLC. Prior to joining Kroger, Mr. Cosset served in several leadership roles at dunnhumby USA, LLC, including Executive Vice President of Consumer Markets and Global Chief Information Officer. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Carin L. Fike ​ 57 ​ Ms. Fike was elected Vice President and Treasurer effective April 2017. Prior to that, she served as Assistant Treasurer and also as Director of Investor Relations. Ms. Fike began her career with Kroger in 1999 as a manager in the Financial Reporting department after working with PricewaterhouseCoopers in various roles, including audit manager. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ 7 Gregory S. Foran ​ 64 ​ Mr. Foran was elected Chief Executive Officer effective February 2026. He was also appointed as a member of the Kroger Board effective February 2026. Mr. Foran previously served as the Chief Executive Officer of Air New Zealand Limited, a public airline, from February 2020 until October 2025. Prior to joining Air New Zealand, Mr. Foran had been at Walmart since October 2011, including serving as Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. from August 2014 until January 2020, as President and Chief Executive Officer for the Walmart Asia region from May 2014 to August 2014, and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Walmart China from March 2012 to May 2014. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Valerie L. Jabbar ​ 57 ​ Ms. Jabbar was elected Senior Vice President effective August 19, 2021 and is responsible for the oversight of several Kroger retail divisions. From July 2020 to August 2021, she served as Group Vice President of Center Store Merchandising, and from September 2018 to June 2020, as Group Vice President of Merchandising. Prior to that, she served as President of the Ralphs Division from July 2016 to August 2018. Before that, Ms. Jabbar served as Vice President of Merchandising for the Ralphs Division and as Vice President of Merchandising for the Mid-Atlantic Division. She also held several leadership roles, including assistant store director, category manager, Drug/GM coordinator, G.O. Seasonal manager, assistant director of Drug/GM and director of Drug GM, and district manager in the Fry’s Division. She joined the Company in 1987 as a clerk in the Fry’s Division. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Joseph M. Kelley ​ 60 ​ Mr. Kelley was elected Senior Vice President in May 2025 and is responsible for the oversight of several Kroger retail divisions. From November 2021 to April 2025, he served as President of the King Soopers and City Market division. Prior to that, he served as President of the Houston division from May 2019 to November 2021. Mr. Kelley joined Kroger in 2019, serving as Vice President on special assignment with a focus on customer experience. Prior to joining Kroger, he held executive leadership roles with Ahold USA, Stop and Shop, Marsh Supermarkets, and Price Chopper Supermarkets, and served as principal of Kelley Business Advisors, LLC, where he advised grocery retailers. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ David J. C. Kennerley ​ 52 ​ Mr. Kennerley was elected Executive Vice President in March 2025. Prior to joining Kroger, he held various leadership roles at PepsiCo, a global food, snack and beverage company, from 2001 to 2025, most recently serving as CFO, Europe. Mr. Kennerley joined PepsiCo in 2001 as a manager in the International Corporate Finance/Treasury Department, then in 2005 moved to the U.K. business as a business development director and subsequently held a number of roles across Planning and Commercial Finance. In 2011, he became the company’s senior finance director for the Global Beverages Group and then moved into the North American Beverage business. After that, Mr. Kennerley held a number of roles across Commercial Finance before being appointed to SVP Finance for the company’s North American Bottling business. He served in his most recent role as CFO, Europe from March 2020 to March 2025. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ 8 Timothy A. Massa ​ 59 ​ Mr. Massa was elected Executive Vice President in March 2025 and serves as the Company’s Chief People Officer, leading all areas of Human Resources and Labor Relations, including total rewards, labor relations, diversity, business unit human resources, people operations, training and development, talent hiring, retention and engagement, corporate affairs, and associate communications. He also leads the areas of shared services and aviation. From June 2018 to March 2025, Mr. Massa served as Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer, and from June 2014 to June 2018, he served as Group Vice President of Human Resources and Labor Relations. Mr. Massa joined Kroger in October 2010 as Vice President, Corporate Human Resources and Talent Development. Prior to joining Kroger, he served in various Human Resources leadership roles for 21 years at Procter & Gamble, most recently serving as Global Human Resources Director of Customer Business Development. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Brian W. Nichols ​ 53 ​ Mr. Nichols was elected Group Vice President, Corporate Controller in October 2025 and is responsible for oversight of Kroger’s Corporate Accounting and Corporate Tax departments, as well as the Company’s Accounting Centers and Accounting Modernization teams. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Corporate Controller from March 2024 to September 2025, and as Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller from April 2021 to March 2024. From May 2018 to April 2021, Mr. Nichols served as Senior Director and Assistant Corporate Controller. Prior to that, he held several leadership roles, including Senior Manager of Corporate and External Financial Reporting and Senior Financial Analyst of SEC Reporting. Mr. Nichols joined Kroger in 2000 as Assistant Controller of the Central Division. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Ronald L. Sargent ​ 70 ​ Mr. Sargent has served as Chairman of the Board since March 2025 and also served as Interim Chief Executive Officer from March 2025 to February 2026. Mr. Sargent has been a Kroger director since 2006 and served as the Lead Director from June 2018 to March 2025. He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Staples, Inc., a business products retailer, from 2002 until his retirement as Chief Executive Officer in 2016 and as Chairman in 2017, after joining the company in 1989. Prior to joining Staples, Mr. Sargent spent 10 years with Kroger in several roles across stores, sales, marketing, manufacturing and strategy. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Megan N. Shaffer ​ 41 ​ Ms. Shaffer was elected Group Vice President of Strategy, Customer Growth and Loyalty in June 2025. From May 2023 to June 2025, she served as Group Vice President and Chief Transformation Officer. From May 2018 to May 2020, she served as Senior Director in Retail Operations, focusing on process improvement and in-stock solutions. From May 2020 to April 2023, she was Vice President of Retail Operations, leading customer experience, labor, process improvement, and front-end operations. In September 2021, she gained responsibility for the Ruler Foods division. Ms. Shaffer joined Kroger in 2018 after 12 years in leadership roles with Aldi, Inc. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ 9 Victor R. Smith ​ 65 ​ Mr. Smith was elected Senior Vice President in January 2026 and is responsible for the oversight of several Kroger retail divisions. From April 2022 to January 2026, he served as President of the Atlanta Division and from February 2018 to April 2022, he served as President of the Delta Division. From August 2016 to February 2018, Mr. Smith served as Vice President of Merchandising for the Ralphs Division. From December 2015 to July 2016, Mr. Smith served as Vice President of the Houston Division. Prior to that, he held several leadership roles in the Ralphs Division, including store manager, operations research analyst, shrink manager, operations coordinator, district manager and meat merchandiser. Mr. Smith joined the Company in 1983 as a courtesy clerk in the Ralphs Division. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ George H. Vincent ​ 68 ​ Mr. Vincent was elected Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in August 2025 and is responsible for oversight of Kroger’s Law and Compliance departments. Before joining Kroger, he was engaged in the private practice of law for 43 years at Cincinnati-based law firm Dinsmore & Shohl and served as the firm’s managing partner from 2007 to 2022. ​ COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT ​ For the disclosure related to our competitive environment, see Item 1A under the heading “Competitive Environment.” ​ ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. ​ There are risks and uncertainties that can affect our business. The significant risk factors are discussed below. The following information should be read together with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which includes forward-looking statements and factors that could cause us not to realize our goals or meet our expectations. ​ COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT ​ The operating environment for the food retailing industry continues to be characterized by the proliferation of local, regional, and national retailers, including both retail and digital formats, and intense and ever-increasing competition ranging from online retailers, mass merchants, club stores, regional chains, deep discounters, dollar stores, and ethnic, specialty and natural food stores. With the proliferation of grocery delivery – both by retailers and third-party delivery service providers – customers have a wide range of retailers from which to choose. Customers continue to expect a great shopping experience both in-store and online. The industry continues to be shaped by e-commerce, cooking at home and prepared foods to go and other customer needs and preferences. Customers want to be able to shop on their own terms whether at brick and mortar stores or online, pick-up or delivery, all depending on their particular trip needs and other factors. If we do not appropriately or accurately anticipate customer preferences or fail to quickly adapt to these ever-changing preferences, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. If we fail to meet the evolving needs of our customers, our ability to compete and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are not able to execute our plan to significantly increase our investment in major store projects, including new stores to accelerate sales growth and improve share, while supporting our long-term growth model, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. ​ 10 We are continuing to enhance our connection with our customers with investments in our top priorities – Fresh, Our Brands , Personalization and eCommerce. Each of these strategies is designed to better serve our customers and to generate customer loyalty and sustainable growth momentum. We believe that continuing to focus on these top priorities will enable us to meet the wide-ranging needs and expectations of our customers. If we are unable to continue to enhance the key elements of our connection with customers, or if we fail to strengthen customer loyalty, our ability to compete and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our ecosystem monetizes the traffic and data insights generated by our retail grocery business to create fast-growing, asset-light and margin-rich revenue streams. Growth in loyal households, customer traffic and digitally engaged customers allows us to grow profits and power the flywheel in our model. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our alternative profit strategy, which could adversely affect our business growth and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The nature and extent to which our competitors respond to the evolving and competitive industry by developing and implementing their competitive strategies could also adversely affect our profitability. ​ In addition, evolving customer preferences and the advancement of online, delivery, ship to home and mobile channels in our industry have increased competition in our environment. We must anticipate and meet these evolving customer preferences and continue to implement technology, software and processes to be able to conveniently and cost-effectively fulfill customer orders. Providing flexible fulfillment options and implementing new technology is complex and may not meet customer preferences. If we are not successful in reducing or offsetting the cost of fulfilling orders outside of our in-store channel through efficiencies, expense reductions, or alternative revenues, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. ​ The emergence of artificial intelligence-powered agentic shopping tools, in which AI agents autonomously research, compare and purchase products on behalf of consumers could further disrupt traditional grocery retail. If customers increasingly delegate purchasing decisions to AI agents that prioritize price, speed or other factors over retailer preference or brand loyalty, we could become disintermediated from the customer relationship. This could result in reduced visibility into customer behavior, increased margin pressure and a weakened ability to influence purchasing decisions. Our failure to adapt our digital capabilities to address the growth of agentic shopping could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ In addition, if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant digital experience for our customers, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Digital retailing is rapidly evolving, and we must keep pace with new developments by our competitors, as well as the changing needs and preferences of our customers. We must compete by offering a convenient shopping experience for our customers, regardless of how they choose to shop with us, and by providing and maintaining relevant customer-facing apps and interfaces that have the features customers want that are also reliable and easy to use. The future success of the eCommerce business will also depend on the efficiency and cost effectiveness of fulfilling orders across our modalities, whether in store, pickup or delivery through third parties or our customer fulfillment centers. We have closed certain customer fulfillment centers because they have not been meeting operational and financial expectations. If we do not develop and maintain our eCommerce plan and profitability improvements of our customer fulfillment centers, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. ​ PRODUCT SAFETY ​ Customers count on Kroger to provide them with safe food, drugs and other merchandise. Concerns regarding the safety of the products that we sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us or to seek alternative sources of supply, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. We could be adversely affected by personal injury or product liability claims, product recalls, or other health and safety issues, which occur from time to time. If we sell products that cause illness or injury to customers, resulting from product contamination or spoilage, the presence of certain substances, or damage caused in handling, storage or transportation, we could be exposed to claims or litigation. Any issue regarding the safety of items, whether Our Brands items manufactured by us or for us or consumer packaged goods products we sell, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ 11 EMPLOYEE MATTERS ​ More than two-thirds of our associates are covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions, and our relationship with those unions, including any work stoppage affecting a substantial number of locations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are a party to approximately 350 collective bargaining agreements. Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur (and have occurred in the past) if we are unable to negotiate new contracts with the applicable labor union. In addition, changes to national labor policy could affect relations with our associates and with unions. Further, if we are unable to control health care, pension and wage costs, or if we have insufficient operational flexibility under our collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ We have committed to paying fair wages and providing the benefits that were collectively bargained with the United Food and Commercial Workers (“UFCW”) and other labor unions representing our associates. Our ability to control labor and benefit costs is subject to numerous internal and external factors, including regulatory changes, wage rates, and healthcare and other insurance costs. Changes to wage regulations, including further increases in the minimum wage or ordinances related to pay or working conditions enacted by local governments, could have an effect on our future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling wages and other costs, is subject to numerous external factors, including the available qualified workforce in each area where we are located, unemployment levels within those areas, wage rates, and changes in employment and labor laws. ​ Our continued success depends on the ongoing contributions of our associates, including members of our senior management, key associates and executives. While we have development and succession plans in place for our key associates and executives, these plans do not guarantee that the services of our key associates and executives will continue to be available to us or the successful transition of responsibilities following departures or role changes. It may be difficult to replace key executives because of the limited number of qualified individuals with the breadth of skills and experience necessary for our business. We must recruit, hire, develop and retain qualified associates with an increasingly large range of skills to meet the needs of our evolving and complex business. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these associates and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. Competition among potential employers has resulted, and may in the future result, in increased associate costs and has from time to time affected our ability to recruit and retain associates. If we are unable to attract, develop, retain and effectively manage the development and succession plans for our associates, including members of our senior management, key associates and executives, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ DATA AND TECHNOLOGY ​ Our business is increasingly dependent on information technology systems that are complex. If we were to experience difficulties maintaining or operating existing systems or implementing new systems, we could incur significant losses due to disruptions in our operations. As we modernize legacy systems, if we are unable to successfully implement those systems in a coordinated manner across internal and external stakeholders, we could be subject to business interruption or reputation risk with our customers, suppliers or associates. ​ Rapidly evolving technological and regulatory developments related to artificial intelligence (“AI”) and related technologies may increase competitive, legal, and security risks facing the Company. While we are utilizing AI and machine learning capabilities across our business, our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their products, services and operations more successfully, which could impair our ability to compete effectively, or adversely affect our results of operations or our ability to improve operational efficiency. ​ To effectively compete, we may need to increase investments in new capabilities and processes incorporating AI, as well as develop appropriate protections, safeguards, and policies for handling data and mitigating information security, data privacy and legal risks. Furthermore, the regulatory and legal landscape regarding AI is rapidly evolving and the Company may be challenged to timely comply in a cost-effective manner. ​ 12 Through our sales and marketing activities, we collect and store personal information that our customers provide to us. We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal course of business. Under certain circumstances, we may share information with third parties that assist us in conducting our business, as required by law, or otherwise in accordance with our privacy policy. Failure to protect this information, or failure to comply with applicable data protection and privacy laws, could result in legal, regulatory, reputational, and financial harm. ​ Our technology systems have been, and may be in the future, disrupted from circumstances beyond our control, as we regularly defend against and respond to data security related attacks. Cyber-attackers have targeted and accessed, and may in the future again target and, if successful, access information stored in our or certain third parties’ systems in order to misappropriate confidential customer or business information. The rapid evolution and increased adoption of AI and related technologies may also intensify the risk that our technology systems are targeted. Due to ongoing geopolitical conflicts, there is an increased possibility of cyberattacks that could either directly or indirectly affect our operations. Although we have implemented procedures to protect our information, and require third parties we interact with to do the same, we cannot be certain that our security systems will successfully defend against, or be able to effectively respond to, cyberattacks as they become more difficult to detect and defend. Further, a Kroger associate, a contractor or other third party with whom we interact may in the future circumvent our security measures in order to obtain information or may inadvertently cause a breach involving information. In addition, hardware, software or applications we may use may have inherent defects, vulnerabilities, or could be inadvertently or intentionally applied or used in a way that could compromise our information security. ​ Our cybersecurity program, continued investment in our information technology systems, and our processes to evaluate and select vendors with reasonable information security controls may not effectively insulate us from potential attacks, data breaches or disruptions to our business operations, which could result in a loss of customers or business information, negative publicity, damage to our reputation, and exposure to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card associations, associates and other persons. Any such events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and may not be covered by our insurance. In addition, compliance with rapidly changing privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes and may require us to devote significant management resources to address these issues. The costs of attempting to protect against the foregoing risks and the costs of responding to cyberattacks are significant. Following a cyberattack, remediation efforts may not be successful, and a cyberattack could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers. In addition, breaches of our and/or our vendors’ security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or confidential information about us or our customers could expose our customers’ private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, and result in investigations, regulatory enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, loss of customers and business relationships, litigation or other actions which could have a material adverse effect on our brands, reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ Data governance failures can adversely affect our reputation and business. A significant portion of our business depends on our customers’ willingness to entrust us with their personal information. Events that adversely affect that trust, including inadequate disclosure to our customers of our uses of their information, failures to honor new and evolving data privacy rights and laws, failing to keep our information technology systems and our customers’ sensitive information secure from significant attack, theft, damage, loss or unauthorized disclosure or access, whether as a result of our action or inaction (including human error) or that of our business associates, vendors or other third parties, could adversely affect our brand and reputation and operating results and also could expose us to mandatory disclosure to the media, litigation (including class action litigation), governmental investigations and enforcement proceedings, material fines, penalties and/or remediation costs, and compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages, consent orders, and/or injunctive relief, any of which could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Large scale data breaches at other entities, including supply chain related security vulnerabilities, increase the challenge we face in maintaining the security of our information technology systems and proprietary information and of our customers’ information. There can be no assurance that such failures will not occur, or if any do occur, that we will detect them or that they can be sufficiently remediated. ​ 13 The use of data by our business and our business associates is highly regulated. Privacy and information-security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to, among other things, systems changes and the development of new processes. If we, our third-party service providers, or those with whom we share information fail to comply with laws and regulations, or self-regulatory regimes, that apply to all or parts of our business, such as section 5 of the FTC Act, the California Consumer Privacy Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or applicable international laws such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation, our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost business, and we could be subjected to additional legal risk or financial losses as a result of non-compliance. ​ PAYMENT SYSTEMS ​ We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash and checks, select credit and debit cards, and Kroger Pay, a mobile payment solution. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional rules, regulations, compliance requirements, and higher fraud losses. For certain payment methods, we pay interchange and other related acceptance fees, along with additional transaction processing fees. We rely on third parties to provide payment transaction processing services for credit and debit cards. It could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, including due to short-term disruption of service. We are also subject to evolving payment card association and network operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers. For example, we are subject to Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which contain compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. If our payment card terminals or internal systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card re-issuance costs and other costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and lose our ability to accept card payments from our members, or if our third-party service providers’ systems are breached or compromised, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. ​ INDEBTEDNESS ​ Our indebtedness could reduce our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, mergers and acquisitions or other purposes and could make us vulnerable to future economic downturns as well as competitive pressures. If debt markets do not permit us to refinance certain maturing debt, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness. Changes in our credit ratings, or in the interest rate environment, could have an adverse effect on our financing costs and structure. ​ GOVERNMENT REGULATION, LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND INSURANCE ​ We are subject to various laws, regulations, and administrative practices that affect our business, including laws and regulations involving antitrust and competition, privacy, data protection, environmental, healthcare, anti-bribery, anti- corruption, tax, accounting, and financial reporting or other matters. In addition, certain states have adopted Extended Producer Responsibility (“EPR”) packaging legislation with which we must comply. These and other rapidly changing laws, regulations, policies and related interpretations, changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate, along with changes in federal policy and at regulatory agencies, as well as increased enforcement actions by various governmental and regulatory agencies, create challenges for us, may alter the environment in which we do business and may increase the ongoing costs of compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to continue to meet these challenges and comply with all laws, regulations, policies and related interpretations, it could negatively affect our reputation and our business results. Additionally, we are currently, and in the future may be, subject to a number of inquiries, investigations, claims, proceedings, and requests for information from governmental agencies or private parties, the adverse outcomes of which could harm our business. Failure to successfully manage these new or pending regulatory and legal matters and resolve such matters without significant liability or damage to our reputation may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, if new or pending legal or regulatory matters result in fines or costs in excess of the amounts accrued to date, that may also materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ 14 Increasing governmental and societal attention to responsible business matters, including expanding voluntary reporting, diligence, and disclosure on topics such as climate change, waste production, water usage, human capital, labor, and risk oversight, could expand the nature, scope, and complexity of matters that we are required to control, assess, and report and could negatively affect our reputation. Additionally, there is some indication that sustainability goals are becoming more controversial, as some governmental entities in the United States and certain investor and other constituencies question the appropriateness of or object to sustainability initiatives. We may face criticism as a result of Thriving Together, our responsible business strategy, from certain stakeholders, including governmental authorities, regulators, shareholders and customers. We have established and publicly announced certain goals which we may refine in the future. The execution of the strategy to achieve these goals is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which may be outside of our control and prove to be more costly than we anticipate. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to achieve our goals within the currently projected costs and the expected timeframes; unforeseen operational and technological difficulties; the outcome of research efforts and future technology developments; and the success of our collaborations with and reliance on third parties. Any failure, or perceived failure, to achieve these goals or the setting or publication of certain targets could damage our reputation and customer, investor and other stakeholder relationships, and may even result in regulatory enforcement action. Such conditions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, new or changing regulation or public opinion regarding our sustainability goals or our actions to achieve them may result in adverse effects on our financial performance, reputation or demand for our services and products, or may otherwise result in obligations and liabilities that cannot be predicted or estimated at this time. ​ Additionally, we must comply with numerous provisions regulating, among other things, health and sanitation standards, food labeling and safety, prescriptions, controlled substances, zoning, vehicle operations, fuel operations, equal employment opportunity, minimum wages and licensing for the sale of food, drugs, and alcoholic beverages. We cannot predict future laws, regulations, interpretations, administrative orders, or applications, or the effect they may have on our operations. They could, however, significantly increase the cost of doing business. They also could require the reformulation of some of the products that we sell (or manufacture for sale to third parties) to meet new standards. We also could be required to recall or discontinue the sale of products that cannot be reformulated. These changes could result in additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling, or scientific substantiation. Any or all of these requirements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ We currently are a party to, and will continue to be a party to, third-party legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, property damage, privacy, contract disputes, private rights of action under certain regulations and other proceedings, including but not limited to opioid litigation and litigation with Albertsons. Some of these proceedings are brought by individuals and others purport to be brought as class actions on behalf of similarly situated parties. Some of these proceedings could result in a substantial loss to Kroger. We estimate our exposure to these legal proceedings and establish accruals for the estimated liabilities, where it is reasonably possible to estimate and where an adverse outcome is probable. Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial uncertainties. Adverse outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in our evaluations or predictions about the proceedings, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Please also refer to the “Litigation” and “Opioids” sections in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ​ We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability, property, director and officers’ liability, cyber risk exposure and associate health care benefits. Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. With respect to insured matters, we are liable for retention amounts that vary by the nature of the claim, and some losses may not be covered by insurance. Changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ 15 MULTI-EMPLOYER PENSION OBLIGATIONS ​ As discussed in more detail below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Multi-Employer Pension Plans,” Kroger contributes to several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements with unions representing associates covered by those agreements. We believe the present value of actuarially accrued liabilities in most of these multi-employer plans exceeds the value of the assets held in trust to pay benefits, and we expect that Kroger’s contributions to most of these funds will increase over the next few years. A significant increase to those funding requirements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Despite the fact that the pension obligations of these funds are not the liability or responsibility of the Company, except as noted below, there is a risk that the agencies that rate our outstanding debt instruments could view the underfunded nature of these plans unfavorably, or adjust their current views unfavorably, when determining their ratings on our debt securities. Any downgrading of our debt ratings likely would adversely affect our cost of borrowing and access to capital. ​ We have been designated as the named fiduciary for, and currently bear the investment risk of two multi-employer pension plans in which we participate. If investment results for these plans fail to meet our expectations, we could be required to make additional contributions to fund a portion of or the entire shortfall, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ INTEGRATION OF NEW BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC ALLIANCES ​ We enter into mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances with expected benefits including, among other things, operating efficiencies, procurement savings, innovation and sharing of best practices, that may allow for future growth. Achieving the anticipated or desired benefits may be subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including, without limitation, whether unique corporate cultures will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner, the coordination of geographically separate organizations, the possibility of imprecise assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies, capital requirements, the integration process (including the integration of internal controls into our business operations), unforeseen expenses and delays and competitive factors in the marketplace. We could also encounter unforeseen transaction and integration-related costs or other circumstances such as unforeseen liabilities or other issues. Many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention. If we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ FUEL ​ We sell a significant amount of fuel in our 1,731 fuel centers, which could face increased regulation, including due to climate change or other environmental concerns, and demand could be affected by concerns about the effect of emissions on the environment, as well as retail price increases. We are unable to predict future regulations, environmental effects, political unrest, acts of war or terrorism, disruptions to the economy, including but not limited to pandemics and other health crises, geopolitical conflicts, tariffs and other matters that affect the cost and availability of fuel, and how our customers will react to such factors, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ 16 ECONOMIC CONDITIONS ​ Our operating results could be materially affected by changes in overall economic conditions and other economic factors that affect consumer confidence and spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, overall economic slowdown or recession, changes in housing market conditions, changes in government benefits such as SNAP/EBT, student loan relief, or child care credits, the availability of credit, interest rates, inflation, disinflation or deflation, tax rates, tariffs and other matters could reduce consumer spending. Inflation could materially affect our operating results through increases to our cost of goods, supply chain costs and labor costs. In addition, the economic factors listed above, or any other economic factors or circumstances, including those resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, can increase our merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative expenses and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Increased fuel prices also have an effect on consumer spending and on our costs of producing and procuring products that we sell. A deterioration in overall economic conditions, including uncertainty caused by inflation rate volatility, could adversely affect our business in many ways, including reducing sales and gross margins. Geopolitical and catastrophic events, such as wars and conflicts, civil unrest, acts of terrorism or other acts of violence, could materially affect our results, including several occurrences which have taken place at our locations, including active shooter situations, the loss of merchandise as a result of shrink or industry-wide theft and organized retail crime, pandemics or other health crises, and other matters that may reduce consumer spending, could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We regularly maintain cash balances at third-party financial institutions in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit and are therefore reliant on banks and other financial institutions to safeguard and allow ready access to these assets. If banks or financial institutions enter receivership or become insolvent in the future in response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets, our ability to access our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments may be threatened. We are unable to predict how the global economy and financial markets will perform or their volatility. If the global economy and financial markets do not perform as we expect, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ Our operating results could be adversely affected by any future disease outbreak, including pandemics, epidemics, or similar widespread health concerns. We cannot predict with certainty the extent that our operations may be affected by any effects of the foregoing on us or on our customers, suppliers, vendors, and other business partners, and each of their financial conditions; however, any adverse effect on these parties could materially and adversely affect us. To the extent that any health crisis affects the U.S. and global economy and our business, it may also heighten other risks described in this section, including but not limited to those related to consumer behavior and expectations, competition, implementation of strategic initiatives, cybersecurity threats, payment-related risks, supply chain disruptions, labor availability and cost, litigation and operational risk as a result of regulatory requirements. ​ WEATHER, NATURAL DISASTERS AND OTHER EVENTS ​ A large number of our stores, distribution facilities and fulfillment centers are geographically located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, wildfires, ice and snow storms, and earthquakes. Weather conditions and natural disasters have, and may again in the future, disrupt our operations at one or more of our facilities, interrupt the delivery of products to our stores, substantially increase the cost of products, including supplies and materials, and substantially increase the cost of energy needed to operate our facilities or deliver products to our facilities. Moreover, the effects of climate change, including those associated with extreme weather events, may affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities that are optimal for us or at all. Adverse weather or natural disasters and other matters that could reduce consumer spending, could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ 17 CLIMATE IMPACT ​ The long-term effects of global climate change present both physical risks, such as extreme weather conditions or rising sea levels, and transition risks, such as regulatory or technology changes, which are expected to be widespread and unpredictable. These changes could over time affect, for example, the availability and cost of products, commodities and energy including utilities, which in turn may affect our ability to procure goods or services required for the operation of our business at the quantities and levels we require. In addition, many of our operations and facilities are in locations that may be affected by the physical risks of climate change, and we face the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to stores, distribution or fulfillment centers, loss or spoilage of inventory and business interruption caused by such events. We also use natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline and electricity in our operations, all of which could face increased regulation and cost increases as a result of climate change or other environmental concerns. Transitioning to alternative energy sources, such as renewable electricity or electric vehicles, and investments in new technologies, could incur higher costs. Regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions and energy inputs may also increase in the future, which may increase our costs associated with compliance, tracking, reporting, and sourcing. These events and their effects could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ SUPPLY CHAIN ​ Disruption in our global supply chain could negatively affect our business. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors, and any future disruption in our supply chain or inability to find qualified vendors and access products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner could adversely affect our business. The loss or disruption of such supply arrangements for any reason, labor disputes, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, acts of war or terrorism, disruptive global political events, quality control issues, a supplier’s financial distress, natural disasters or health crises, regulatory actions or ethical sourcing issues, trade sanctions, tariffs or other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt product supply and, if not effectively managed and remedied, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​