{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":514448,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Overview Lumentum Holdings Inc. (“we,” “us,” “our”, “Lumentum” or the “Company”) is a global leader in optical and photonic technologies and an industry-leading provider of optical and photonic products based on revenue and market share. Our products are essential to a range of cloud, artificial intelligence and machine learning (“AI/ML”), telecommunications, consumer, and industrial end-market applications. We operate in one reportable segment as a single, integrated enterprise. See “Note 17. Operating Segments and Geographic Information” to the consolidated financial statements. We disaggregate revenue by type of product, which are Components and Systems, and by geography. A Components product is defined as one of the individual building blocks that goes into creating a larger solution. It is typically not a complete solution on its own but rather a specialized element that enables system functionality. This includes semiconductor laser chips, laser sub-assemblies, line subsystems and wavelength management systems. These are supplied to customers who then integrate them into their own full system solutions. Components represent foundational parts that support or enable that system’s operation and include optical chips and subsystems that are supplied to cloud data center operators, AI/ML infrastructure providers, and network equipment manufacturer customers. A Systems product is defined as a complete, stand-alone solution that delivers full functionality to the end customer. It is typically self-contained and ready to operate within a customer’s network or application environment. This includes optical modules, optical circuit switches, and industrial lasers such as short-pulse solid-state lasers and kilowatt-class fiber lasers. These products integrate multiple technologies and subsystems into a finished solution that directly addresses a customer’s needs. A system represents the end-product that can be deployed and used independently. Our products enable high-capacity optical links for cloud computing, AI/ML workloads, and data center interconnect (“DCI”) applications, as well as for communications service provider networks. Our offerings support access (local), metro (intracity), long-haul (intercity and global), and submarine (undersea) network infrastructure. Our products serve enterprise network infrastructure needs, including storage area networks (“SANs”), local area networks (“LANs”), and wide area networks (“WANs”). Demand for our products is fueled by the ongoing expansion of network capacity required to support cloud services, AI/ML processing, streaming video, video conferencing, wireless and mobile connectivity, and the internet of things (“IoT”). In addition, our industrial laser products are used for precision material processing across diverse industries, including semiconductor and microelectronics fabrication, electric vehicle and battery production, metal cutting and welding, and advanced manufacturing that emphasize greater manufacturing precision, flexibility, and sustainability. 2 Table of Contents We have a global footprint that enables us to address global market opportunities for our products with employees engaged in research and development (“R&D”), administration, manufacturing, support and sales and marketing activities in various locations worldwide. Our headquarters are located in San Jose, California, and we have manufacturing capabilities and facilities in North America, Asia-Pacific, and Europe. Lumentum was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly owned subsidiary of JDS Uniphase Corporation (“JDSU”) on February 10, 2015. In August 2015, we were spun off from JDSU and became an independent publicly traded company through the distribution of our common stock by JDSU to its stockholders. Since our spin-off from JDSU (now Viavi Solutions, Inc., or Viavi), we have completed a number of acquisitions, including Oclaro, Inc. (“Oclaro”) in 2018, NeoPhotonics Corporation and IPG Photonics’ telecom transmission product lines in 2022, and Cloud Light Technology Limited (“Cloud Light”) in 2023. These acquisitions have enhanced our product portfolio, broadened our revenue mix and strengthened our position to meet the evolving needs of our customers. Our Industry Our business is driven by end-market applications leveraging the performance advantages of advanced optical and photonic solutions. We operate within global markets characterized by robust, long-term growth trends that are increasing demand for our products and technologies. The convergence of factors including the growing reliance on data transmission, the rapid adoption of AI/ML, and the increasing digitalization of society is driving expansion in cloud data centers and the demand for higher-bandwidth network solutions. Our products and technologies are at the forefront of these trends, engineered to support increased data volumes and computational loads while meeting the industry's need for advanced network capabilities. Additionally, the manufacturing industry's pursuit of higher precision, innovative materials, and improved efficiency fuels demand for industrial laser-based solutions. Lumentum is well-positioned to capitalize on this trend through the provision of ultrafast lasers for micromachining and advanced material processing. In addition, we also produce laser emitters for 3D sensing applications in consumer electronics. While we maintain a positive outlook on the long-term prospects for our products and technologies, we acknowledge the presence of industry and market risks and uncertainties, including fluctuations in supply and demand, that have led to volatility in our business and financial performance. Industry Conditions Through fiscal year 2024, we experienced significant fluctuations in demand as customers delayed projected shipments or built up inventory in response to supply shortages and then brought down inventories as supply chain constraints eased. Our revenue fluctuated in response to these changes in demand and our margins were adversely impacted as we were not able to fully recover costs, such as underutilized manufacturing capacity. However, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, network equipment manufacturers normalized inventory levels; and since then, we have seen increasing demand from AI and cloud customers as they continue to expand their data centers, driven in part by the continued advances in cloud and AI infrastructure. This demand is outpacing our current supply which has required us to make decisions on supply allocation. We are investing in manufacturing capacity, both internally and with contract manufacturers, to meet demand. Our supply chain is complex, and we need to manage supply of certain components required to build our products while confronted with fluctuating demand from our customers. From time to time, we experience logistics and supply chain issues and shortages of the types of components we and our customers require in our products, and when we experience these shortages, we have had to incur incremental supply and procurement costs in order to increase our ability to fulfill demands from our customers . Due to worldwide operations, we and our customers are also subject to risks relating to the global trade environment. We are actively monitoring and assessing the global trade environment, particularly with respect to various proposed and enacted changes in tariff regulations and trade restrictions. The ongoing uncertainty surrounding trading policies, including the potential for additional tariffs, restrictions related to our customers and retaliatory measures by non-U.S. governments, continues to create a volatile environment that could disrupt our operations. The imposition of tariffs on certain imported goods and materials and export controls on critical components may increase our costs and place upward pressure on the cost of goods sold, which, in turn, may reduce our gross margins if we are unable to pass these costs onto customers through price increases. For more information on risks associated with supply chain constraints and customer inventory, as well as tariffs and other trade restrictions, refer to Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. 3 Table of Contents Geopolitical Developments As a global business with operations spanning diverse geographic regions, we are exposed to geopolitical risks. Fluctuations in the geopolitical landscape, including war, military conflicts, changes in export regulations, the effects of heightened, scheduled, or proposed tariffs, and shifts in national priorities and foreign relations policies, can significantly impact our business. For instance, modifications to trade restrictions and export regulations can adversely affect both product demand and our ability to supply customers, which would harm revenue and profit margins. Moreover, disruptions in our customers' supply chains due to geopolitical events could reduce or delay their demand for our products, ultimately impacting our revenue and operating results. For more information on risks associated with the change in geopolitical landscape and regulatory actions, refer to Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. Markets We maintain leading market positions in our fast-growing optical networking markets through our extensive product and technology portfolio and close relationships with a wide range of market-leading customers. We provide a wide range of optical and photonic components, modules, and subsystems that support high-speed, high-capacity transmission of data over fiber optic links in cloud data centers, AI/ML, enterprise and communications services networking. Our customers include cloud and network service providers, AI infrastructure providers, and network equipment manufacturers (“NEMs”). Within data center and AI/M applications, our products enable high-speed interconnection across networked servers, AI accelerators, storage, and switches. Within communication service provider applications, our products support high-capacity access (local), metro (intracity), long-haul (city-to-city and worldwide) and submarine (undersea) optical networks. Within the industrial market, our diode lasers serve as pump sources for high-power fiber lasers used in metal fabrication and other demanding applications. Our ultrafast lasers cater to industries such as printed circuit board manufacturing, semiconductor processing, electric vehicle battery production, solar cell production, and flat panel display fabrication, where precise micromachining is essential. In the consumer electronics market, our laser light sources are integral components of 3D sensing cameras used in smartphones, computers, and other consumer electronics devices. These 3D sensing capabilities enable applications such as biometric identification, augmented and virtual reality, and computational photography. Trends The convergence of cloud computing and AI is driving rapid innovation and expansion in optical hardware for hyperscale operators. The immense computational demands of training and running AI models are shifting infrastructure from traditional copper interconnects to high-speed photonics. Concurrently, surging data traffic from video streaming, search engines, e-commerce, and cloud services continues to fuel the data center expansion. Photonic solutions offer substantial advantages over copper connections, including ultra-fast, high-volume data transmission and reduced electromagnetic interference, enabling data traffic to continue to scale to accelerate AI model training and enhance high-performance computing (“HPC”) efficiency. To address these challenges, web-scale companies are adopting distinct optical architectures: • Scale-Out Optical Solutions: Optical hardware connects individual compute clusters, servers, and switches across the broader data center network to manage massive parallel workloads. This includes the adoption of 200G lane speed optical components that double data transfer rates compared to traditional 100G lanes. • Scale-Up Optical Solutions: High-speed photonics and optical switches are deployed to directly cluster and interconnect GPUs and AI accelerators within the compute fabric, maximizing cluster efficiency and processing speeds. • Scale-Across DCI Solutions: High-speed data center interconnects (“DCIs”) are constructed to enable seamless, low-latency data exchange across geographically dispersed data center units. This scale-across capability optimizes resource utilization by allowing cloud operators to leverage and balance computing power across multiple disparate locations. The exponential growth of data across industries also drives the expansion of long-haul, metro, and access networks. Dense wavelength-division multiplexing (“DWDM”) technologies are being leveraged to increase data speeds while reducing costs. High-end networking equipment must now handle both legacy and internet protocol traffic while meeting stringent requirements for bandwidth, scalability, speed, reliability, compactness, and cost-effectiveness. 4 Table of Contents Further, the dynamic nature of network traffic demands agile optical networks that adapt to changing conditions. Technologies like Reconfigurable Optical Add-Drop Multiplexers (“ROADMs”), wavelength-selective switches, and tunable transmission products facilitate remote capacity adjustments. This need for capacity expansion across DCIs, metro regional networks, and long-haul networks is further accelerated by the widespread deployment of 5G mobile networks and bandwidth-intensive applications is increasing data speed at the network edge. The industrial laser market is driven by the pursuit of precision and efficiency in material processing. Fiber lasers have surpassed gas lasers in sheet metal processing and welding due to their superior power, beam quality, power efficiency, and cost-effectiveness. This technology empowers manufacturers across metal fabrication, automotive, and electronics to produce smaller, lighter, and more functional products from advanced materials. The trend toward miniaturization necessitates precise micromachining with minimal heat impact. Solid-state and ultrafast lasers excel in these tasks, replacing traditional tools for processes like creating vias in circuit boards and singulating wafers. Ultrafast lasers, with their exceptionally short pulses, are particularly adept at the delicate and precise micromachining required in semiconductor, display, solar cell, and EV battery production. In the consumer market, laser light sources are integral to 3D sensors primarily used in mobile devices. This technology enables real-time depth perception, transforming image capture and granting devices the ability to perceive the world in three dimensions. Applications span biometric identification, computational photography, virtual and augmented reality, and natural user interfaces. Offerings Lumentum is a leading provider of high-speed optical transceivers and optical components underpinning modern AI and cloud computing applications. Optical transceivers and data interconnect solutions are essential for connecting servers, switches, and routers within data centers. We also manufacture key components used in optical transceivers and data interconnect solutions, including high-speed laser transmitters, photonic integrated circuits, and photodiodes, high-power laser light sources. For data center interconnects, Lumentum offers both its own coherent pluggable transceivers and the underlying ultra-narrow linewidth laser and coherent components used by transceiver customers. Beyond standard offerings, we deliver customized solutions tailored to specific customer needs, such as high-power laser sources, compact laser arrays, and advanced packaging schemes enabling co-packaged optics and integrated photonics assemblies. In metro and long-haul optical networks, Lumentum offers a comprehensive suite of coherent and direct-detect optical transmission components, modules, and optical transport solutions. Our tunable transceivers, transmitter modules, and high-speed coherent components are essential to DWDM systems maximizing fiber capacity and minimizing cost per bit. For optical transport applications, we offer a broad range of products, including ROADMs, optical amplifiers, and optical channel monitors to efficiently switch, route, and condition optical signals. Our portfolio also includes pump lasers for optical amplifiers and passive components such as switches, attenuators, and wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM) systems. Beyond discrete components, we provide integrated modules, circuit packs, and subsystems for amplification, switching, and wavelength management. Additionally, our transport offerings include optical circuit switches for data center applications, helping to reduce power consumption and improve overall network efficiency. We also offer a comprehensive range of industrial lasers to address diverse manufacturing needs. Our fiber lasers deliver kilowatt-class output power and excellent beam quality, making them ideal for sheet metal processing and general manufacturing applications. Additionally, high-power, solid-state and ultrafast lasers are used by manufacturers for precision machining tasks like drilling in printed circuit boards, wafer singulation, glass cutting, and solar cell scribing. Our 3D sensing products are primarily laser light sources, including higher-performance vertical-cavity surface-emitting lasers (VCSELs) and VCSEL arrays. Strategy In optical networking, we focus on technology leadership through innovation in close partnership with our customers, cost leadership and functional and vertical integration. We align the latest technologies with industry-leading, scalable manufacturing and operations to make us a valuable partner for cloud data center and network operators, AI/ML infrastructure providers, and NEMs. We aim to drive the next phase of data center infrastructure and communication data network scaling with technologies and products that are faster, more energy-efficient, more agile and more reliable. 5 Table of Contents Our commitment to innovation, particularly in photonic integration, drives the development of optical products that meet the evolving demands of data centers. Each product generation offers enhanced functionality, reduced size, lower power consumption, and improved cost-effectiveness. By providing a wide range of innovative optical solutions, from components to integrated modules to complete systems, we enable our customers to build the high-performance data center and communication networks of today and engineer those of the future. In industrial lasers, we leverage our long-term relationships with OEM customers and our broad product and manufacturing technology portfolio to create innovative and valuable solutions that enable our customers to win in their markets. Customers During fiscal years 2026, 2025, and 2024, net revenue from a single end customer which represented 10% or more of our total net revenue of the applicable fiscal year is summarized in the table below: Years Ended June 27, 2026 June 28, 2025 June 29, 2024 Customer A 26.6 % 15.4 % 18.9 % Customer B 15.0 % 16.0 % 11.4 % International Operations During fiscal years 2026, 2025 and 2024, net revenue from customers outside the United States based on the geographic region and country where our product is initially shipped to represented 79.2%, 81.0% and 73.8% of net revenue, respectively. Frequently, customers request shipment of our products to their factories, contract manufacturer factories, or other locations in countries that differ from their headquarter location (which in many cases is in the U.S.). Our net revenue is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, including our net revenue from customers outside the United States based on customer shipment locations as described above. Refer to “Note 17. Operating Segments and Geographic Information” to the consolidated financial statements. For information regarding risks associated with our international operations, refer to Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. Backlog Due to possible changes in product delivery schedules and cancellation of product orders, and because our sales often reflect orders shipped in the same quarter in which they are received, our backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual revenue or the level of orders for any succeeding period. Competition We compete against various public and private companies providing photonic components, modules, and systems. Some of these competitors are also our customers for certain of our products. Seasonality Our revenue may be influenced on a quarter-to-quarter basis by customer demand patterns and new product introductions. Some of our products may be incorporated into consumer electronic products, which are subject to seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Mergers and Acquisitions We evaluate strategic opportunities regularly and, where appropriate, have acquired and expect to acquire in the future, additional businesses, products, or technologies that are complementary to, or broaden the markets for our products. We believe we have strengthened our business model by expanding our addressable markets, customer base and expertise, diversifying our product portfolio and fortifying our core businesses through acquisitions as well as through organic initiatives. Refer to “General - Overview” above and “Note 4. Business Combination” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Research and Development We devote substantial resources to research and development (“R&D”) for the development of new and enhanced products to serve our current markets and attractive new markets for our technology. We also expend significant engineering resources to enhance both product performance and our ability to manufacture products in greater volume and at lower cost. 6 Table of Contents We are maintaining our capability to provide leading products throughout the network, while focusing on several important sub-segments. We are making significant investments in next generation optical components for cloud data center and AI/ML applications, including higher speed and higher optical power laser chips for use in high-speed datacom transceivers and data interconnection solutions. We are also investing in the development of new high-speed optical transceiver modules for use in cloud data center, AI/ML, and DCI applications. In addition, we are investing in the emerging optical circuit switching market to enable direct data transmission between fiber optic cables in data centers within the optical plane. We continue to invest in research and development to develop innovative components and modules for telecommunications networks, such as higher capacity ROADMs and tunable laser and coherent components and transceiver modules needed for long-haul and metro applications. We are also responding to market needs for higher levels of integration, including the integration of optics, electronics and software in our modules, subsystems and circuit packs. We continue to develop new solid-state, fiber, and ultrafast short pulse lasers that leverage our technologies. These products are targeted at serving customers engaging in the semiconductor device, solar cell, display, and electric vehicle and battery manufacturing markets as well as broader materials processing and precision micromachining end-markets. We also continue to develop new and enhanced laser diode products with higher performance and efficiency at lower cost, primarily for the consumer end-market. Intellectual Property Intellectual property rights that apply to our various products include patents, trade secrets and trademarks. We do not intend to broadly license our intellectual property rights unless we can obtain adequate consideration or enter into acceptable patent cross-license agreements. As of June 27, 2026, we owned approximately 1,000 U.S. patents and 900 foreign patents with expiration dates through 2046 and had approximately 670 patent applications pending throughout the world. Manufacturing We use a combination of our own wafer fabrication facilities, or wafer fabs, assembly and test facilities, as well as third-party contract manufacturers to produce our products. Our significant manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, Thailand, China, the United Kingdom, Slovenia, and Japan. We expanded our manufacturing footprint through our various acquisitions, and in 2026, we continued to add to our footprint by acquiring a manufacturing facility in Greensboro, North Carolina. We have undertaken various initiatives to consolidate and restructure certain of our manufacturing and operational sites, particularly in light of efficiencies and synergies achievable from prior acquisitions, while also expanding overall manufacturing capacity for new and high growth product lines across our global manufacturing footprint. Our significant contract manufacturing partners are located primarily in Thailand, Taiwan, Malaysia and the Philippines. We rely on the capabilities of our contract manufacturers to plan and procure components and manage the inventory in these locations. Sources and Availability of Raw Materials We use various suppliers and contract manufacturers to supply parts and components for manufacturing and support of multiple product lines. Although our intention is to establish at least two sources of supply for materials whenever possible, for certain components we have sole or limited source supply arrangements. We may not be able to procure these components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and quality within a reasonable time, or at all, therefore, the risk of loss or interruption of such supply could impact our ability to deliver certain products on a timely basis. Risks associated with reliance on third parties for the timely and reliable delivery of raw materials are discussed in greater detail in Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. Human Capital Resources As of June 27, 2026, we employed approximately 13,757 full-time employees, including approximately 11,916 employees in manufacturing, 1,085 employees in R&D and 756 employees in SG&A. Of the 13,757 employees, approximately 1% are represented by two national collective bargaining agreements with local chapters in Slovenia and two labor unions in China. We believe that our relations with both our union and non-union employees are in good standing. We believe that our future performance relies on the strength of our employees, and our ability to recruit, retain, develop and motivate the services of executive, engineering, sales and marketing, and support personnel is critical to our success. We strive to meet these objectives by offering competitive pay and benefits in a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace and by providing opportunities for our employees to grow and develop their careers. 7 Table of Contents Competitive Pay and Benefits We provide compensation and benefits packages that we believe are competitive within the applicable market. We use a combination of compensation and other programs (which vary by region and salary grade) to attract, motivate and retain our employees, including semi-annual or annual performance bonuses, stock awards, an employee stock purchase plan, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, tuition assistance programs, health and wellness benefits and programs. We review our benefits packages annually, or more frequently as needed, to ensure we remain competitive with our peers and continue to attract and retain talent throughout our organization. Employee Recruitment, Retention and Development We are committed to recruiting, hiring, retaining, promoting and engaging a global, diverse workforce to best serve our global customers, suppliers, and partners. We have established relationships with professional associations and industry groups to proactively attract talent, and we partner with universities for our internship program. We believe that our commitment to our internship program and university partnerships contributes to developing the next generation of talent and provides a pipeline of recent college graduates into our talent pool. Material Government Regulations Our business activities are international and subject us to various federal, state, local and foreign laws in the countries in which we operate, and our products and services are subject to certain laws and regulations affecting the sale of our products. Environment Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety to sites inside and outside the United States, even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and occupational health and safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated, and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. The environmental, product content/disposal and recycling laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may cause us to incur significant expenditures in the future. In connection with our separation from JDSU and trading as an independent public company in 2015, we agreed to indemnify Viavi for any liability associated with contamination from past operations at all properties transferred to us from Viavi, to the extent the resulting issues primarily related to our business. We have not been presented with any claims to date. Global Trade and Export Controls As a global business, we operate in many jurisdictions and our products and services are subject to diverse and evolving import and export laws, including international treaties, U.S. export controls and sanctions, customs regulations, and local trade laws. These regulations may delay product launches, restrict our operations in certain regions, or limit dealings with specific entities or individuals, particularly where sensitive or controlled technology is involved. For instance, the U.S. and other governments have imposed restrictions on certain semiconductors and telecommunications products and components, which limit both sales of our products and our access to product components. At the same time, noncompliance with these trade regulations could significantly hinder our ability to operate in some markets or serve particular customers. For additional information concerning regulatory compliance and a discussion of the risks associated with governmental regulations that may materially impact us, refer to Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. Available Information Our website is located at www.lumentum.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://investor.lumentum.com. Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings at www.sec.gov. 8 Table of Contents Investors and others should note that we routinely use the Investors section of our website to announce material information to investors and the marketplace. While not all of the information that we post on our corporate website is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. Accordingly, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in us to review the information that we share on www.lumentum.com. Information in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factor Summary Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, including those outside of our control, which could cause our actual results to be harmed, including risks regarding the following: Risks Related to our Business • unfavorable economic and market conditions, including trade restrictions, export control laws and customs regulations, and tariffs; • our reliance on a limited number of suppliers and customers; • order cancellations, reductions or delays in delivery schedules by our customers or distributors; • failure of banking institutions and liquidity concerns at other financial institutions; • our backlog may not be an accurate indicator of our level and timing of future revenue; • our gross margins and operating margins may vary over time; • challenges relating to supply chain constraints; • changes in technology and intense competition; • our ability to sell to a significant customer; • higher tariffs and other trade restrictions between the U.S. and other countries, including China and Thailand; • the impact of a widespread health crisis; • our international operations structure; • volatility and maintenance of our real property portfolio; • our ability to timely procure components needed to manufacture our products; • our ability to manufacture our products; • our leverage in negotiations with large customers; • design and manufacturing defects or quality issues in our products; • our ability to timely adapt to changes in laws, regulations, administrative procedures and regulators’ expectations, including those related to U.S. and international import laws and export controls; • our strategic transactions and implementation strategy for our acquisitions; • restructuring and related charges; • changes in spending levels, demand and customer requirements for our products; 9 • changes in tax laws; • fluctuations in foreign currency; • our future capital requirements; • actual or perceived security or privacy breaches or incidents, as well as defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our technology and that of third-party providers; • the failure or absence of business continuity plans with respect to our global facilities and operations; • the unpredictability of our results of operations; • our ability to protect our product and proprietary rights; • factors relating to our intellectual property rights as well as the intellectual property rights of others; • actions taken by suppliers, customers and authorized or unauthorized resellers or distributors that adversely affect our reputation or violate import or export regulations; • litigation risks, including intellectual property litigation; • our reliance on licensed third-party technology; and • our ability to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting Risks Related to Our Indebtedness • our ability to service our current and future debt; and • our current and future indebtedness, which may limit our operating flexibility or otherwise affect our business Risks Related to Human Capital • our ability to hire and retain key personnel; • the effects of immigration policy on our ability to hire and retain employees; and • employment related disputes and claims Risks Related to Legal, Regulatory and Compliance • our ability to obtain government authorization to export our products; and • changes in social and environmental responsibility regulations, policies and provisions, as well as government, customer, business partner, investor or other stakeholder demands Risks Related to Our Common Stock • the volatility of the trading price of our common stock; • dilution related to our convertible notes; • our intention not to pay dividends for the foreseeable future; • provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws that may make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult; • exclusive forum provisions in our bylaws; • the potential impact of the hedging activity of the 2032 Capped Call Counterparties on the market price of our common stock; and • counterparty risk with respect to the 2032 Capped Call Options 10 Risks Related to Our Business Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in macroeconomics and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment. Our business and operating results depend significantly on general market and economic conditions. The current global macroeconomic environment is volatile and continues to be significantly and adversely impacted by inflation and a dynamic demand environment. Additionally, instability in the global credit and banking markets, inflation, trade wars, disputes and tariffs, capital expenditure reductions, unemployment, stock market volatility, armed conflicts and geopolitical tensions in many parts of the world (including as a result of the on-going Russia-Ukraine war, ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, including the U.S.-Iran war, political and territorial conflicts in the Western Hemisphere, the conflict between Cambodia and Thailand, and China-Taiwan relations), economic challenges in China and the U.S., including global economic ramifications of Chinese and U.S. economic difficulties, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. Further, conditions in the global economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction of the global economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors, and regions of the economy, including the markets in which we participate. All aspects of our forecasts depend on estimates of growth or contraction in the markets we serve. Adverse changes to and uncertainty in the global economy have affected industries in which our customers operate and have resulted in decreases in the rate of demand, consumption or use of certain of our customers’ products which, in turn, have resulted in, and may in the future result in, decreased demand for our products, revenue fluctuations, increased price competition for our products, and increased the risk of excess and obsolete inventories as well as higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenue. For example, customers who had built up large inventories when supply chains were tight related to the COVID-19 pandemic brought down inventories as supply constraints eased and, in some cases, these customers delayed projected shipments, which harmed our revenue and profitability. These conditions may recur in the future, and similar losses or delays may harm our results of operations. The impact of economic challenges on the global financial markets could negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, the solvency of our key suppliers or the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. Further, supply chain disruptions have led and may continue to lead to increased costs and have harmed and may continue to harm our ability to meet customer demand, adversely affecting our revenue and profitability. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate, our prospects for growth may be negatively impacted, and we may experience adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Adverse changes in political, regulatory and economic policies, including the threats of increasing worldwide tariffs for goods imported into the United States and of escalating retaliatory measures, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. U.S. regulatory activity, such as tariffs, export controls, and economic sanctions laws have in the past, and may in the future, materially limit our ability to make sales to customers in certain regions of the world, including China, and which have in the past, and may in the future, increase our costs and harm our results of operations and financial condition. Throughout 2025 and 2026, the U.S. imposed a series of tariffs on imported goods. These tariffs were generally positioned to have the most significant impacts on goods originating from China, but nearly all countries worldwide were impacted at levels ranging from 15% to stacked tariffs in excess of 100% in some cases. While many of the tariffs and surcharges initially proposed were invalidated or expired, the tariff landscape continues to evolve and, as a result, the full impact of current or future tariff measures on our business is uncertain. U.S. government investigations are currently underway that may result in new tariffs on certain products, including semiconductors, machines, and other products derivative of critical minerals. For example, on April 14, 2025, the Secretary of Commerce initiated an investigation under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 to determine the effects on U.S. national security of imports of semiconductors, semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and their derivative products, including semiconductor substrates and bare wafers, legacy chips, leading-edge chips, microelectronics, and other components. Similarly, the U.S. government has initiated additional investigations that could result in tariffs or other trade restrictions affecting our operations, supply chain, customers, or markets. These include Section 232 investigations concerning processed critical minerals and their derivative products and robotics and industrial machinery, as well as Section 301 investigations concerning structural excess capacity and production in manufacturing sectors in certain foreign economies that have failed to adopt or effectively enforce forced labor prohibitions. Although these investigations are currently at different stages, they all may result in additional tariffs or trade restrictions, which could adversely impact our business. We may take actions to mitigate the impact of increases in tariffs and changes in trade policies, and any such actions could result in additional costs, manufacturing delays, or other difficulties, as well as additional risks, and may not be effective. 11 Any of the effects described in this risk factor could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Outside of the U.S., geopolitical escalations and retaliatory measures from various countries also have in the past, and may in the future, adversely impact business operations. Such measures include tariffs on imports of U.S. products into countries such as China, as well as China’s export control measures targeting the U.S., Europe and Japan. For example, China imposed new export control measures affecting exports of rare earth metals and other critical minerals, limiting our ability to access these materials, which may limit our ability to produce products, increase our selling and/or manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, reduce customer demand for our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies. Similarly, China restricted exports to Japan, which affected our substrate supply chain globally. Future changes to the trade policies of the U.S. and China are impossible to predict, but further changes or escalations impacting global trade policies may continue to affect our business. Adverse regulatory activity, such as export controls, economic sanctions and the imposition of heightened trade tariffs both globally and between the United States and China specifically carry the risk of negatively impacting overall economic conditions, which could have negative repercussions on our industry and our business. Moreover, to the extent the governments of China, the United States or other countries seek to promote use of domestically produced products or to reduce the dependence on or use of products from each other (sometimes referred to as “decoupling”), they may adopt or apply regulations or policies that have the effect of reducing business opportunities for us. Such actions may take the form of specific restrictions on particular customers, products, technology areas, or business combinations. For example, in the area of investments and mergers and acquisitions, the United States has implemented requirements for approval by the United States government of outbound investments; and the approval by China regulatory authorities is required for business combinations of companies that conduct business in China over specific thresholds, regardless of where those businesses are based. Restrictions may also be imposed based on whether the supplier is considered unreliable or a security risk. For example, the Chinese government adopted a law that would restrict purchases from suppliers deemed to be “unreliable suppliers”. China has also banned the sale of products that it deems to pose security risks to China's information and infrastructure supply chain and national security. Furthermore, imposition of new or additional tariffs or new or revised export or import regulations, trade sanctions, or non-tariff barriers to doing business could cause a decrease in the demand, from customers or end-users located in China, increase the cost for our products, or promote competition from Chinese optical and photonics companies, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for raw materials, packages and components, and any failure or delay by these suppliers in meeting our requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We purchase raw materials, packages and components from a limited number of suppliers, who are often small and specialized. Additionally, some of our suppliers are our sole sources for certain materials, equipment and components. We depend on the timely and continued supply and quality of the materials, packages and components that our suppliers supply to us. While we have entered into advanced payments to secure orders from some of these suppliers, we have not entered into long-term agreements with many of these suppliers. We do not have a guarantee of supply from many of these suppliers and, as a result, there is no assurance that we would be able to secure the equipment or components that we require, in sufficient quantity, quality and on reasonable terms. Our business and results of operations have been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by this dependency. Alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any sole supplier will adversely affect our business are not feasible in all circumstances. If we were to lose any one of these or other critical sources, or if there is an industry-wide increase in demand for, or the discontinuation of, raw materials used in our products, it could be difficult or impossible for us, to find an alternative supplier or raw material, in which case our operations could be adversely affected. We are also subject to risk from increasing or fluctuating market prices of certain raw materials, which are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our end products. Supplies for such raw materials have from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions have in the past affected and may in the future affect pricing of such commodities (including, in particular, due to changes in applicable tariffs, inflation, trade restrictions, or other supply chain constraints). For example, China’s export controls affected the availability and price of rare earth metals and other critical minerals for us as well as our supply chain and customers, adversely affecting our operations, margins and sales. Specific concerns we periodically encounter with our sole suppliers or limited number of suppliers include receipt of defective parts or contaminated materials, stoppages or delays of supply, insufficient resources to supply our requirements, substitution of more expensive or less reliable materials, increases in the price of supplies, and an inability to obtain reduced pricing from our suppliers in response to competitive pressures. Furthermore, supply chain disruptions and labor market constraints have created heightened risk that sole suppliers or limited number of suppliers may be unable to meet their obligations to us. Difficulties in obtaining the materials, or services used in the conduct of our business or additional fees or higher prices to do so, have adversely affected our revenue and results of operations, and further challenges or decisions to seek alternate suppliers to secure supply in order to meet demand would increase our costs and reduce our profitability. 12 Our financial results may be adversely affected due to changes in product demand impacted by recessions, increases in interest rates, stagflation and other economic conditions. Customer demand for our products may be impacted by weak economic conditions, inflation, stagflation, trade wars, adverse changes in tariffs and trade policies, recessionary or lower-growth environments, high interest rates, tightening credit markets, equity market volatility or other negative economic factors in the U.S. or other countries. For example, under these conditions or expectation of such conditions, our customers in the past have canceled orders, delayed purchasing decisions or reduced their use of our services. In addition, adverse economic conditions have in the past, and could in the future, result in higher inventory levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges from our contract manufacturers if we need to slow production to reduce inventory levels. Further, in the event of a recession or threat of a recession our contract manufacturers, suppliers and other third-party partners may suffer their own financial and economic challenges and as a result they may demand pricing accommodations, delay payment, or become insolvent, which could harm our ability to meet our customer demands or collect revenue or otherwise could harm our business. Similarly, disruptions in financial and/or credit markets may impact our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our contract manufacturers, customers, suppliers and creditors and could cause us to not be able to continue to access preferred sources of liquidity when we would like, and our borrowing costs could increase. Thus, if economic conditions deteriorate or experience a sustained period of weakness or slower growth, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Our ability to sell our products to a previously significant customer has been restricted. In August 2020, the Bureau of Industry and Security of the U.S. Department of Commerce (“BIS”) issued final rules that further restricted access by Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. and certain of its affiliates (collectively, “Huawei”) to U.S. technology, software and equipment produced domestically and abroad. The final rules prevent us from selling certain products subject to the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) to identified Huawei entities without a license issued by BIS. Based on internal review conducted in 2023, we determined that our products may be “subject to the EAR” and consequently restricted for export, reexport, and transfer to Huawei. As a result, we stopped all of our product shipments to Huawei, historically our largest networking customer in China, in the beginning of calendar year 2024. Further, even if we are able to obtain an export authorization to sell certain products to Huawei in the future, Huawei may not be able to source products from other suppliers due to the applicable export restrictions, which could then adversely impact Huawei’s demand for our products. All U.S. companies are dependent on the ability to obtain export authorizations to sell to Huawei. Until such export authorizations are available or the export restrictions are lifted, we are limited in our ability to sell our products. We submitted voluntary self-disclosures to BIS regarding certain product shipments to Huawei following the adoption of the final rules. In August 2024, we received an administrative subpoena from BIS requesting the production of records in connection with our business with Huawei. We also received a related subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) that also requested information regarding our business with Huawei. We have been, and will continue to, cooperate with BIS and DOJ in responding to the subpoenas and their ongoing reviews. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with export controls laws and policies could have negative consequences, including significant legal costs, penalties, and potentially even denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts, any of which could have an adverse effect on our operations, reputation and financial condition. Under the current regulatory policy and rules, our business with Huawei is now completely restricted. In addition to being unable to supply any products to Huawei, we are also currently unable to work with Huawei on future product developments, or confer any benefit to Huawei, and expect this to continue while Huawei remains subject to the export control restrictions. This cessation of all business activities with Huawei has resulted in our inability to earn revenue from Huawei. Huawei has been required to obtain similar or substitute products from other sources, which may include our competitors that are not subject to these restrictions. Therefore, we may never recover this demand even if such export restrictions ease. We cannot be certain what additional actions the U.S. government may take with respect to Huawei or other entities in China or other countries, and we are unable to predict the duration and scope of the restrictions enacted in May 2019 and thereafter. BIS continues to add entities to the list of restricted parties and may expand restrictions to other customers or otherwise restrict our ability to ship products. Any further export or trade restrictions that impede our ability to export or sell our products and services could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 13 Inflation and increased borrowing costs could impact our cash flows and profitability. Prolonged periods of inflation may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity by increasing our overall cost structure, particularly if we are unable to achieve commensurate increases in the prices we charge our customers. Inflation has resulted in and may continue to result in higher interest rates and capital costs, supply shortages, increased costs of labor and other similar effects. As a result of inflation, we are subject to risk from increasing market prices of certain components, supplies, and raw materials, which are incorporated into our products or used by our manufacturing partners or suppliers to manufacture our products. These components, supplies and commodities have from time-to-time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions have affected pricing of such components, supplies and raw materials (such as inflation or supply chain constraints), and future restrictions or market conditions impacting pricing may adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, higher interest rates and tightening credit markets may impact our customers and partners and their ability to purchase products or pay in a timely manner may be adversely impacted. Our backlog may not be an accurate indicator of our level and timing of future revenues. Our backlog may not be a reliable indicator of future operating results. Further, customer behaviors have been changing as a result of worldwide macroeconomic factors, including as a result of changes in the trade policies of the U.S. and its trading partners, such as the effects of heightened, scheduled or threatened tariffs, and which has affected demand and may continue to affect demand for certain of our products and services. If we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of these supply challenges and behavioral changes effectively, or if general macroeconomic conditions or conditions in the industries in which we operate deteriorate, our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. We expect our gross margins and operating margins to vary over time. Our gross margins and operating margins are expected to vary, and may be adversely affected in the future by numerous factors, including, but not limited to: • an increase or decrease in demand of our products; • changes in product mix; • increased price competition in one or more of the markets in which we compete; • modifications to our pricing strategy to gain or retain footprint in markets or with customers; • currency fluctuations that impact our costs or the cost of our products to our customers; • the impact of inflation on costs and on demand for our products; • increases in material, labor, manufacturing, logistics, warranty costs, or inventory carrying costs; • issues with manufacturing or component availability; • issues relating to the distribution of our products, quality or efficiencies; • increased costs due to changes in component pricing or charges incurred due to the inaccurately forecasting product demand or underutilization of manufacturing capacity; • warranty related issues; • factors beyond our control such as natural disasters, climate change, acts of war or terrorism, and pandemics and other public health emergencies; • changing market, economic, and political conditions, including the impact of changes in the trade policies of the U.S. or its trading partners, heightened, scheduled or threatened tariffs, changes in the applicable trade restrictions, including for certain rare earth minerals, any retaliatory actions in response thereto, and other trade restrictions, regulatory restrictions on imports or exports to withdraw from or materially modify international trade agreements, or • our introduction of new products and enhancements, or entry into new markets with different pricing and cost structures. We have also seen, and may continue to see, our gross margins negatively impacted by increases in component costs, logistics costs, elevated inventory balances, and pricing pressure. Failure to sustain or improve our gross margins reduces our profitability and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Challenges relating to supply chain constraints, including semiconductor components, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to increased demand across a range of industries, our business and customers’ businesses are experiencing and could, in the future, experience supply constraints due to both constrained manufacturing capacity, as well as component parts shortages. These supply constraints have adversely affected and could further affect availability, lead-times and cost of components, and could increase the likelihood of unexpected cancellations or delays of previously committed supply of key components. These challenges have resulted in extended lead-times to our customers or accelerated ordering for certain of our products that resulted in inventory backlog that was subsequently managed down, resulting in reduced ordering. Ordering patterns may be difficult to predict and we have experienced and may, in the future, experience negative impacts to our revenue and profitability as well as our ability to achieve our forecasts. Any disruption or delay in the production, delivery or supply of the raw materials, packaging or components used in the manufacture and delivery of our products, including delays and limits associated with heightened, scheduled or threatened tariffs affecting our components or raw materials, or limits on manufacturing availability or capacity, could delay or inhibit our ability to produce finished goods inventory. These supply chain constraints and their related challenges could result in shortages, increased material costs or use of cash, engineering design changes, and delays in new product introductions, each of which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not anticipate technological shifts, market needs and opportunities, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. If we are unable to anticipate future technological shifts, market needs, requirements or opportunities, or fail to develop and introduce new products, product enhancements, manufacturing or supply chain capacity, or business strategies to meet those requirements or opportunities in a timely manner or at all, it could cause us to lose customers, substantially decrease or delay market acceptance and sales of our products and services, and significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if we invest in developing products for a market that does not develop, it could significantly harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we are able to anticipate, develop, and commercially introduce new products, enhancements or business strategies, any such products, enhancements or business strategies may not achieve market acceptance. Changing technology and intense competition require us to continuously innovate while controlling product costs, and our failure to do so may result in decreased revenues and profitability. The markets in which we operate are dynamic and complex, and our success depends on our ability to deliver both our current product offerings and new products and technologies on time and at acceptable prices to our customers. The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, substantial capital investment, changes in customer requirements, continued price pressures and a constantly evolving industry. Historically, these pricing pressures have led to a continued decline of average selling prices in certain areas of our business, and we expect that these historical trends will continue. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and the accurate prediction of technology and market trends. The introduction of new products also often requires significant investment to ramp up production capacity, the benefit of which may not be realized if we are not successful in the production of such products or if customer demand does not develop as expected. Ramping of production capacity also entails risks of delays which can limit our ability to realize the full benefit of new product introductions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely basis. We also cannot assure you that potential markets for our new products will materialize on the timelines we anticipate, or at all, or that our technology will meet our customers’ specifications. In addition, the markets in which our customers compete experience rapid changes in technology, customer requirements, competitive products, and industry standards, which may impact the demand for our products or products that we are developing. For example, markets driven by AI/ML technology are changing rapidly and creating increased competition from large public companies as well as private companies and start-ups; and therefore, the demand for our products that address these markets may change and is difficult to predict. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction, deployment and market acceptance of new and enhanced features and products that meet our customers’ current and future needs. Future demand for our products is uncertain and will primarily depend on continued technological development and the introduction of new or enhanced products. If this does not continue, sales of our products may decline which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 The market for optical communications products in particular has matured over time and these products have increasingly become subject to commoditization. Both legacy competitors as well as new entrants, predominantly Asia-based competitors, have intensified market competition in recent years leading to pricing pressure. To preserve our revenues and product margin structures, we remain reliant on an integrated customer and market approach that anticipates end customer needs as requirements evolve. We also must continue to develop more advanced, differentiated products that command a premium with customers, while conversely continuing to focus on streamlining product costs for established legacy products. If we fail to continue to develop enhanced or new products that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins, or over time are unable to adjust our cost structure to continue to competitively price more mature products, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our sales; and the majority of our customers do not have contractual purchase commitments. We have consistently relied on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales. We expect that this customer concentration will continue in the future, and we expect that our financial performance in certain business lines and growth prospects will continue to depend in part on a small number of customers. Many of our customers purchase products under purchase orders or under contracts that do not contain volume or long-term purchase commitments. Therefore, these customers may alter their purchasing behavior with little or no notice to us for various reasons, including developing, or, in the case of our distributors, their customers developing, their own product solutions; choosing to purchase or distribute product from our competitors; incorrectly forecasting end market demand for their products; or experiencing a reduction in their market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. As a result, it is difficult to forecast our revenues and to determine the appropriate levels of inventory required to meet future demand. For example, we have from time-to-time experienced excess and obsolete charges due to customer transitions to the next generation of products. We may also experience increased inventory levels and increased carrying costs and risk of excess or obsolete inventory due to unanticipated reductions in purchases by our customers. In addition, customers provide us with their expected forecasts for our products several months in advance, but these customers may decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place, including on short notice, or may experience financial difficulty which affects their ability to pay for products, particularly in light of the global macroeconomic uncertainty, and have done so from time-to-time, and the impact of any such actions may be intensified given our dependence on a limited number of large customers. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and in recent periods have become increasingly focused on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, changes in the business requirements, vendor selection, project prioritization, financial prospects, capital resources, and expenditures, or purchasing behavior (including product mix purchased or timing of purchases) of our key customers, or any real or perceived quality issues related to the products that we sell to such customers, have led to decreased sales to such customers or delays or cancellations of planned purchases of our products or services, which has unfavorably impacted our revenues and operating results, and may continue to impact our business and results of operations. We may also experience pricing pressure with certain of our customers that may adversely affect our revenue and margins, or, if the ongoing relationship no longer benefits us, we may decide to suspend or terminate our relationship with such customers. There are also continuing trade tensions, including an uncertain regulatory environment, in the U.S. and countries in Asia, and in particular, China, which have impacted and could continue to materially impact our sales to key customers in these regions. Further, we may be required to purchase raw materials, increase production capacity or make other changes to our business to accommodate certain large customers. If forecasted orders do not materialize, we may need to reduce investment in R&D activities, we may fail to optimize our manufacturing capacity and incur charges for such underutilization, we may incur liabilities with our suppliers for reimbursement of capital expenditures, or we may have excess inventory. In addition, if we incur expenses in response to forecasted demand and do not have a corresponding increase in revenue, our profitability may suffer. Any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Intense competition in our markets may lead to an accelerated reduction in our prices, revenues, margins and market share. The end markets for optical products have experienced significant industry consolidation during the past few years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. As a result, the markets for optical subsystems, components and laser diodes are highly competitive and the intensity of such competition is increasing. Our current competitors include a number of domestic and international public and private companies, many of which may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources and brand name recognition than we have. As we expand into new markets, we face competition not only from our existing competitors, but also from new competitors, including existing companies with strong technological and sales positions in those markets. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors, particularly, in light of increasing consolidation. Our competitors may continue to enter markets or gain or retain market share through introduction of new or improved products or with aggressive low pricing strategies that may impact the efficacy of our approach. These competitors may be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Additionally, the merger or consolidation of significant competitors have resulted in, and will likely result in, competitors with greater resources, which may enable them to offer a different market approach, or a lower cost structure through economies of scale or other efficiencies that we may be unable to match and which may intensify competition in the various markets. In addition, if we are unable to satisfy customer demand and customers are required to purchase products from our competitors, they may shift immediate and future purchases to such competitors, which could harm our customer relationships and adversely impact our access to certain end markets. Further, our competitors may seek to vertically integrate by buying suppliers that also supply products or components to us, which could enable them to further reduce prices, or could increase our costs. Our current or potential customers may also determine to develop and produce products for their own use which may be competitive to our products. Such vertical integration could reduce the market opportunity for our products. Increased competition could result in significant price erosion, reduced revenue, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which would significantly harm our business. We are subject to risks arising from our international operations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We derive a majority of our revenue from our international operations, and we plan to continue expanding our business in international markets in the future. In addition, we have extensive international manufacturing capabilities through third-party contract manufacturers, as well as through our own international facilities, with employees engaged in R&D, administration, manufacturing, support and sales and marketing activities. As a result of our international operations, in addition to similar risks we face in our U.S. operations, we are affected by economic, business, regulatory, social, and political conditions in foreign countries, including the following: • adverse social, political and economic conditions, such as inflation, high interest rates and risk of global or regional recession; • effects of adverse changes in currency rates; • impacts related to business disruptions and restrictions related to pandemics and endemics, including supply chain disruptions and labor shortages and differential impacts in different regions and geographies; • changes in general IT spending; • less effective protection of intellectual property; • the imposition of government controls, inclusive of critical infrastructure protection; • changes in or limitations imposed by trade protection laws or other regulatory orders or requirements in the United States or in other countries; • the restrictions in China on the export of indium, gallium, germanium and other rare earth metals and critical minerals; and other retaliatory responses in the trade policies of the U.S. or foreign governments; • the imposition of export control measures on customers in China may cause those customers to seek domestic alternatives to our products, including developing alternatives internally, and our customers demand for our products could be impacted by their inability to obtain other materials subject to sanctions; • varying and potentially conflicting laws and regulations; 17 • overlapping, differing or more burdensome tax structure and laws; • wage inflation or a tightening of the labor market; • the impact of recessions and other economic conditions in economies outside the United States, including, for example, declines in the manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index as well as the Institute for Supply Management data in the Eurozone; • tax and customs changes that adversely impact our global sourcing strategy, manufacturing practices, transfer-pricing, or competitiveness of our products for global sales; • volatility in oil prices and increased costs, or limited supply of other natural resources; • political developments, geopolitical unrest or other conflicts or wars in foreign nations, and the potential impact such developments or further actions could have on our customers in the markets in which we operate; and • the impact of the following on service provider and government spending patterns as well as our contract and internal manufacturing: political considerations, changes in or delays in government budgeting processes, unfavorable changes in tax treaties or laws, unfavorable events that affect foreign currencies on an absolute or relative basis, natural disasters, epidemic disease, labor unrest, earnings expatriation restrictions, misappropriation of intellectual property, military actions, acts of terrorism, political and social unrest and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. Additionally, our business is impacted by fluctuations in local economies and currencies. Global economic volatility has significantly impacted the foreign exchange markets, and the currencies of various countries in which we operate and have significant volume of local-currency denominated expenses have seen significant volatility. We expect such volatility to continue, which could negatively impact our results by making our non-U.S. operations more expensive when reported in U.S. dollars, primarily due to the costs of payroll. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from or conflict with those in the United States or other countries in which we operate. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. regulations applicable to us. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with applicable U.S. and foreign laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners, or agents could result in termination of our relationships with customers and suppliers, financial reporting problems, fines and/or penalties for us, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products, and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also highly dependent on the ability to ship products to customers and to receive shipments from our suppliers. In the event of a disruption in the worldwide or regional shipping infrastructure, including as a result of geopolitical or armed conflicts, our access to supplies and our ability to deliver products to customers would correspondingly be negatively impacted. As a result of shipping disruptions, we have experienced, among other things, increased costs to ship products and delays in receiving components. Any similar disruptions in the future would likely adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition to the above risks related to our international operations, we also face risks related to pandemics and epidemics. An outbreak of a contagious disease, and other adverse public health developments, particularly in Asia, could have an adverse effect on our business operations. The effects could include restrictions on our ability to travel to support our sites in Asia or other regions or our customers located there, disruptions in our ability to distribute products, and/or temporary closures of our facilities in Asia or the facilities of our suppliers or customers and their contract manufacturers. In the past, these and similar risks have disrupted our operations and the operations of our suppliers, customers and contract manufacturers and increased our costs, and we expect that they may do so in the future. Any or all of these factors could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 18 We are subject to the risks of owning real property. Our buildings subject us to the risks of owning real property, which include, but are not limited to: • adverse changes in the value of these properties due to economic conditions, the movement by many companies to a hybrid work environment, interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors; • the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; • the potential disruption of our business and operations arising from or connected with a relocation due to moving or to renovating the facility; • increased cash commitments for improvements to the buildings or the property, or both; • increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property, or both; and • the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods, typhoons, tsunamis, fires, and/or other natural disasters. Changes in demand and customer requirements for our products may be difficult to forecast. We may be unable to increase our manufacturing capacity to meet future demand, or we may experience difficulties in generating and maintaining demand to optimize our manufacturing capacity. If we are unable to align supply with demand, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We operate in a market where demand can fluctuate rapidly and we may not be able to predict or quickly respond to trends in the dynamics of our markets and our customers or changes in customer demand, which could negatively impact our gross margins. Although AI is a relatively new demand driver for our products, it is evolving rapidly, and the expected timing and amount of investments related to AI can change significantly. As a result, it may be difficult to accurately forecast such demand and we may incur costs in anticipation of demand that ultimately does not materialize. We manufacture and purchase or commit to supplies based on forecasts of demand from our customers. If we overestimate demand, or if customers cancel or defer orders, change requirements or choose to purchase from our competitors, we may not be able to utilize on-hand inventory or reduce purchase commitments accordingly. If demand does materialize, but is lower than expected, we may not be able to reduce our costs in response, which would adversely impact our gross margins. We have experienced pressure on margins and profitability due to lower average selling prices, increase prices for certain products, price increase on certain products as a result of our supplier cost increases, inventory write-downs, cancellation penalties, and impairments charges, and may incur similar costs, charges and pressure on margins and profitability in the future. Our ability to meet demand is influenced by numerous factors, including changes in product development cycles, ramping technologies, and evolving customer requirements. Our ability to increase supply of our products is especially dependent on our ability to increase our manufacturing capacity, both at our own facilities and those of our contract manufacturers. Our ability to increase production is subject to a number of uncertainties inherent in all new manufacturing operations, including ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements, procurement and maintenance of construction, environmental and operational licenses and approvals for additional expansion, clean-room capacity, supply chain constraints, hiring, training and retention of qualified employees, implementing highly complex manufacturing processes, and the pace of bringing production equipment and processes online with the capability to manufacture high-quality products. We may also face difficulties in optimizing our manufacturing capacity, which may result in underutilization of our manufacturing facilities and excess inventory of our manufactured products. If we experience any issues or delays in increasing production capacity in our current or new manufacturing facilities or generating and maintaining demand for our products we manufacture there, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. If demand exceeds our forecasts, we may be unable to scale and increase supply sufficiently to meet such demand, which could result in a loss of revenue, decisions about manufacturing priorities, decisions on supply allocation, damage to customer relationships, legal or other disputes, loss of business and market share to competitors, and loss of future opportunities. 19 If we are unable to manufacture certain products in our manufacturing facilities or if we or our contract manufacturers and suppliers are unable or fail to meet our production requirements, our business may be adversely affected. We manufacture some of our finished good products as well as some of the components that we provide to our contract manufacturers in our China, Japan, Thailand, United Kingdom, and San Jose, California manufacturing facilities. For some of the components and finished good products, we are the sole manufacturer. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, and issues are often difficult to detect and correct. From time-to-time, we have experienced problems achieving acceptable yields in our manufacturing facilities, resulting in delays in the availability of our products and inability to meet customer demand. In addition, if we experience problems with our manufacturing facilities or are unable to continue operations at any of these sites, including as a result of social, geopolitical, environmental or health factors, damage caused by natural disasters, energy shortages or increased energy costs or other problems or events beyond our control, it would be costly and require a long period of time to move the manufacture of these components and finished good products to a different facility or contract manufacturer which could then result in interruptions in supply, and would likely materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our business and operations would be severely impacted if there were any future widespread health crisis or related restrictions imposed by governments or private industry in regions we operate. We also rely on several independent contract manufacturers to supply us with certain products. For many products, a particular contract manufacturer may be the sole source of the finished good products. We depend on these manufacturers to meet our production and capacity requirements and to provide quality products to our customers. There are a number of risks associated with our reliance on contract manufacturers including: • reduced control over delivery schedules and planning; • availability of manufacturing capability and capacity, particularly during periods of high demand; • reliance on the quality assurance procedures of third parties; • risks associated with data security breaches or cyber-attacks targeting our contract manufacturers, including manufacturing disruptions or unauthorized access to information; and • potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. Additionally, if operations at these contract manufacturers are adversely impacted, such as by natural disasters, energy shortages or restrictions due to the impact of a widespread health crisis disruptions or any resulting economic impact to their business, this would likely materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to control the quality of products produced by contract manufacturers has and may in the future be impaired by pandemics or widespread health epidemics disruptions, and quality issues might not be resolved in a timely manner. Additionally, if our contract manufacturers continue experiencing disruptions or discontinue operations, we may be required to identify and qualify alternative manufacturers, which is expensive and time consuming. If we are required to change or qualify a new contract manufacturer, this would likely cause business disruptions and adversely affect our results of operations and could harm our existing customer relationships. Despite rigorous testing for quality, both by us and the contract manufacturers to whom we sell products and from whom we buy products, we may receive and ship defective products. We may incur significant costs to correct defective products which could result in the loss of future sales and revenue, indemnification costs or costs to replace or repair the defective products, litigation and damage to our reputation and customer relations. Defective products may also cause diversion of management attention from our business and product development efforts. Our manufacturing operations and those of our contract manufacturers may be affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, typhoons, tsunamis, fires and widespread health crises, changes in legal requirements, labor competition, shortages and turnover, labor strikes and other labor unrest, wars or other conflicts, and economic, political or other forces that are beyond our control. For example, in the past one of our former contract manufacturers experienced a labor strike which threatened the contract manufacturer’s ability to fulfill its product commitments to us and, in turn, our ability to fulfill our obligations to our customers. We are heavily dependent on a small number of manufacturing sites. Our business and operations would be severely impacted by any significant business disruptions for which we may not receive, and regardless of whether we receive, adequate recovery from insurance. 20 In addition, for a variety of reasons, including changes in circumstances at our contract manufacturers, restrictions or inability to operate, or regarding our own business strategies, we may choose or be required to transfer the manufacturing of certain products to other manufacturing sites, including to our own manufacturing facilities. As a result of such transfers, our contract manufacturers may prioritize other customers or otherwise be unable or unwilling to meet our demand. There also may be delays with the transfer of manufacturing equipment and successfully setting up that equipment at the transfer sites and training new operators. If such transfers are unsuccessful or take a longer period of time than expected, it could result in interruptions in supply and supply chain and would likely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our purchase commitments with contract manufacturers are not cancellable which may impact our results of operations if customer forecasts driving these purchase commitments do not materialize and we are unable to sell the products to other customers. We may also incur charges if we do not utilize our allocated manufacturing capacity which would increase our costs and decrease our margins. Alternatively, our contract manufacturers may not be able to meet our demand which would inhibit our ability to meet our customers’ demands and maintain or grow our revenues. Furthermore, it could be costly and require a long period of time to move products from one contract manufacturer to another which could result in interruptions in supply and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Further, certain of our suppliers are located in China, which exposes us to risks associated with Chinese laws and regulations and U.S. laws, regulations and policies with respect to China, such as those related to export controls, tariffs and retaliatory measures, and risks related to taxation and the treatment of intellectual property. Chinese and U.S. laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, and if our suppliers are unable to obtain or retain the requisite legal permits or otherwise to comply with Chinese and U.S. legal requirements, we may be forced to obtain products from other manufacturers or to make other operational changes, including transferring our manufacturing to another manufacturer or to our own manufacturing facilities. In addition, many of our products are sourced from suppliers based outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. We may continue to face uncertainty with respect to our suppliers’ abilities to supply products due to supply chain and inventory impacts, tax and trade policies, the effects of trade wars, including heightened, scheduled, and threatened tariffs and trade restrictions, and government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of tariffs on imported products, for example, higher U.S. tariffs on the import of certain products manufactured in Thailand or China (and vice-versa), could increase our product and product-related costs or require us to seek alternative suppliers, either of which could result in decreased sales or increased product and product-related costs. Any such developments could have a material impact on our ability to meet our customers’ expectations and may materially impact our operating results and financial condition. Changes in demand and customer requirements for our products may reduce manufacturing yields, which could negatively impact our profitability. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the volume of production due to customer demand and the nature and extent of changes in specifications required by customers for which we perform design-in work. Changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs, introduction of new product lines and changes in contract manufacturers may reduce manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process, before, during or after manufacturing, results in lower gross margins from lower yields and additional rework costs. Any reduction in our manufacturing yields will adversely affect our gross margins and could have a material impact on our operating results. If our customers do not qualify our manufacturing lines or the manufacturing lines of our subcontractors for volume shipments, our operating results could suffer. Certain of our customers do not purchase products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing line for volume production. Our existing manufacturing lines, as well as each new manufacturing line, must pass through varying levels of qualification with certain of our customers. Some of our customers require that our manufacturing lines pass their specific qualification standards and that we, and any subcontractors that we may use, be registered under international quality standards. We may encounter quality control issues as a result of setting up new manufacturing lines in our facilities, relocating our manufacturing lines or introducing new products to fill production. We may be unable to obtain, or we may experience delays in obtaining, customer qualification of our manufacturing lines. If we introduce new contract manufacturing partners and move any production lines from existing internal or external facilities, the new production lines will likely need to be re-qualified with our customers. Any delays or failure to obtain qualifications would harm our reputation, operating results, and customer relationships. 21 We contract with a number of large OEM and end-user service providers and product companies that have considerable bargaining power, which may require us to agree to terms and conditions that could have an adverse effect on our business or ability to recognize revenues. Large OEM and end-user service providers and product companies comprise a significant portion of our customer base. These customers generally have greater purchasing power than smaller entities and, accordingly, often request and receive more favorable terms from suppliers, including us. As we seek to expand our sales to existing customers and acquire new customers, we may be required to agree to terms and conditions that are favorable to our customers and that may affect the timing of our ability to recognize revenue, increase our costs and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, large customers have increased buying power and ability to require onerous terms in our contracts with them, including pricing, warranties, and indemnification terms. If we are unable to satisfy the terms of these contracts, it could result in liabilities of a material nature, including litigation, damages, additional costs, loss of market share and loss of reputation. Additionally, the terms these large customers require, such as most-favored nation or exclusivity provisions, may impact our ability to do business with other customers and generate revenues from such customers. Our products may contain defects that could cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts and result in loss of customers. Our products are complex, and defects and quality issues are found from time-to-time. Networking products in particular frequently contain undetected software or hardware defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. In addition, our products are often embedded in or deployed in conjunction with our customers’ products which incorporate a variety of components produced by third parties, which may contain defects. As a result, when problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and manufacturing resources, and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers, or risk exposure to product liability suits, all of which would harm our business. Additionally, changes in our or our suppliers' manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective materials by us or our suppliers could result in an adverse effect on our ability to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields and product reliability. To the extent that we do not achieve and maintain our projected yields or product reliability, our business, operating results, financial condition and customer relationships would be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate suitable businesses, our operating results and prospects could be harmed, and any businesses we acquire may not perform as expected or be effectively integrated. We have in the past and expect to continue to seek to expand and diversify our operations with acquisitions of complementary technologies, products, manufacturing facilities, assets and businesses and other strategic transactions. Even if we are able to identify a target for acquisition, we may be unable to complete prospective acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms or for many reasons, including competition from other potential acquirers, regulatory requirements or other reasons. In addition, applicable antitrust laws and other regulations may limit our ability to acquire targets or force us to divest all or a portion of our business or an acquired business. We may expend significant cash or incur substantial debt to finance such acquisitions, and such indebtedness may restrict our business or require the use of available cash to make interest and principal payments. In addition, we may finance or otherwise complete acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, which may result in dilution to our stockholders, or if such convertible debt securities are not converted, significant cash outlays. Negotiations for potential acquisitions or other transactions may result in diversion of management’s time and significant out-of-pocket costs. In addition, we may face risk related to: • unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions imposed on the acquisition or transaction, including due to required regulatory approvals or consents, or fees that may be triggered upon a failure to consummate an acquisition or transaction for certain reasons; • the inability to retain and obtain required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits; • loss of employees, customers, suppliers or partners due to uncertainty of a transaction; • litigation in connection with transactions, which may be costly; and • failure to consummate an acquisition resulting in negative publicity and/or negative impression of us in the investment community that could impact our stock price. 22 We have in the past, and may in the future, divest or reduce our investment in certain businesses or product lines from time-to-time. Such divestitures involve risks, such as difficulty separating portions from our other businesses, distracting employees, incurring potential loss of revenue, negatively impacting margins, and potentially disrupting customer relationships. We may also incur significant costs associated with exit or disposal activities, related impairment charges, or both. If we are unable to successfully manage any of these risks in relation to any future acquisitions or divestitures, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, any businesses we acquire may not perform as well as we expect. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our strategy, or integrating acquired companies, businesses or product lines and personnel with existing operations, the integration may be more difficult or more costly than anticipated, or the transaction may not further our business strategy as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investment. Some of the challenges involved integrating businesses and acquisitions include: • difficulty preserving relationships with customers, suppliers or partners; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process R&D; • unanticipated liabilities or our exposure for known contingencies and liabilities may exceed our estimates; • unexpected losses of key employees of the acquired company, inability to attract, recruit, retain, and motivate current and prospective employees or inability to maintain our company culture; • integrating the acquired business onto our systems and ensuring the acquired business meets our financial reporting requirements and timelines, including integrating Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) systems and other key business applications; • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; • difficulties in integrating operations across different geographies, cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; • difficulties in integrating acquired technology; • difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how; • temporary loss of productivity or operational efficiency; and • adverse tax or accounting impact. In addition, following an acquisition, we may have difficulty forecasting the financial results of the combined company and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected if the effect of any acquisitions on our consolidated financial results is dilutive or is below the market's or financial analysts' expectations, or if there are unanticipated changes in the business or financial performance of the target company or the combined company. Any failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses may disrupt our business and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. We have taken steps, including implementing reductions in force and internal reorganizations, to reduce the cost of our operations, improve efficiencies, or realign our organization and staffing to better match our market opportunities and our technology development initiatives. We may take similar steps in the future as we seek to realize operating synergies, to achieve our target operating model and profitability objectives, or to reflect more closely changes in the strategic direction of our business or the evolution of our site strategy and workplace. These changes could be disruptive to our business, including our research and development efforts, and may result in the recording of special charges, including workforce reduction or restructuring costs. Substantial expenses or charges resulting from restructuring activities could adversely affect our results of operations and use of cash in those periods in which we undertake such actions . 23 We may not be able to realize tax savings from our international structure, which could adversely affect our operating results. During fiscal years 2023 and 2025, we completed international restructurings that included the intra-entity transfer of certain intellectual property and other assets used in the business among various subsidiaries. The structures implemented may be challenged by tax authorities, and if such challenges are successful, the tax consequence we expect to realize could be adversely impacted. If substantial modifications to our international structure or the way we operate our business are made, such as if future acquisitions or divestitures occur, if we or our customers or suppliers change our logistics, if changes in domestic and international tax laws negatively impact the structure, if we do not operate our business consistent with the structure and applicable tax provisions, if we fail to achieve our revenue and profit goals, or if the international structure or our application of arm’s-length principles to intercompany arrangements is successfully challenged by the U.S. or foreign tax authorities, our effective tax rate may increase, which could have an adverse effect on our operating and financial results. Changes in tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions. As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant uncertainties exist with respect to the amount of our tax liabilities, including those arising from potential changes in laws in the countries in which we do business and the possibility of adverse determinations with respect to the application of existing laws. Many judgments are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities, and we are under audit by various tax authorities, which often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. Any unfavorable resolution of these uncertainties may have a significant adverse impact on our tax rate. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”) has proposed changes to existing tax laws, including a proposed global minimum tax of 15%, also known as Pillar Two. Many countries, including European Union member states have adopted or are considering adopting legislation to enact these proposals. The OECD and participating jurisdictions have recently agreed to a “side-by-side” solution that exempts U.S.-parented multinational businesses, like ours, from certain provisions of Pillar Two for fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2026. Any of these developments or changes in federal, state, or international tax laws or tax rulings could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our operating results. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rates, tax payments, or incentives will not be adversely affected by these or other developments or changes in law. On July 4, 2025, H.R.1, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (“OBBBA”), was signed into law which contains a broad range of provisions affecting businesses including permanent extension of certain expiring provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, modifications to the international tax framework and the restoration of favorable tax treatment for certain business provisions. Our tax provision includes the impact of the OBBBA. We will continue to evaluate the impact of the OBBBA to our income tax provision. Other countries also continue to enact and consider enacting new laws, which could increase our tax obligations, cause us to change the way we do business or our operations or otherwise adversely affect us. The foregoing items could increase our future tax expense, could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of foreign earnings, and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax and other returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities globally, and we have a number of such reviews underway at any time. It is possible that tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken, and an adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from such examinations, or changes in tax law or regulation impacting our effective tax rates, will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Our operating results may be subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency. We are exposed to foreign exchange risks with regard to our international operations which may affect our operating results. Since we conduct business in currencies other than U.S. dollars but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Due to these fluctuations, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. Although we price our products primarily in U.S. dollars, a portion of our operating expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. For example, a portion of our expenses are denominated in the U.K. pound sterling, Chinese yuan and Thai baht. In addition, we also have term loans denominated in Japanese Yen. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between these currencies and other currencies in which we collect revenues and/or pay expenses could have a material effect on our future operating results. Recently, our exposure to foreign currencies has increased as our non-U.S. manufacturing footprint has expanded. We continue to look for opportunities to leverage the lower cost of non-U.S. manufacturing, including the United Kingdom, China, Thailand, and Japan. While these geographies are lower cost than the U.S. and such concentration will in general lower our total cost to manufacture, this increase in concentration in non-U.S. manufacturing will also increase the volatility of our results. If the value of the U.S. dollar depreciates relative to certain other foreign currencies, it would increase our costs including the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of materials or services that we purchase in foreign currencies, as expressed in U.S. dollars. Conversely, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to other currencies, such strengthening could raise the relative cost of our products to non-U.S. customers, especially as compared to foreign competitors, and could reduce demand. Global economic volatility has had a significant impact on the exchange markets, which heightened this risk, and we expect the higher level of volatility in foreign exchange markets will likely continue. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including supporting the development and introduction of new products, addressing new markets, engaging in strategic transactions and partnerships, improving or expanding our operating infrastructure or acquiring complementary businesses and technologies. Investments, partnerships and acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties which could adversely affect our operating and financial results. We have repeatedly taken advantage of opportunities for convertible debt financing and have $1,554.3 million in aggregate principal amount of debt outstanding. In addition, in December 2025, we entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) providing for a senior secured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $400.0 million, including a $23.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. We may in the future engage in additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity, or equity-linked or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we may secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment, increasing interest rates and other factors have resulted in volatility in the capital markets and less favorable financing terms. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. If we fail to effectively manage our growth or, alternatively, our spending during downturns, our business could be disrupted, which could harm our operating results. We expect to appropriately scale our business, internal systems and organization, and to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Growth in sales, combined with the challenges of managing geographically dispersed operations, can place a significant strain on our management systems and resources, and our anticipated growth in future operations could continue to place such a strain. The failure to effectively manage our growth could disrupt our business and harm our operating results, and even if we are able to upgrade our systems and expand our staff, any such expansion will likely be expensive and complex. Our ability to successfully offer our products and implement our business plan in evolving markets requires an effective planning and management process. In economic downturns, we must effectively manage our spending and operations to ensure our competitive position during the downturn, as well as our future opportunities when the economy improves, remains intact. The failure to effectively manage our spending and operations could disrupt our business and harm our operating results. 25 Any failure, disruption or security breach or incident of or impacting our information technology infrastructure or information management systems could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. Our business depends significantly on effective and efficient information management systems, and the reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure are essential to the operation, health and expansion of our business. For example, the information gathered and processed by our information management systems assists us in managing our supply chain, financial reporting, monitoring customer accounts, and protecting our proprietary and confidential business information, plans, trade secrets, and intellectual property, among other things. In addition, these systems may contain personal data or other confidential or otherwise protected information about our employees, our customers’ employees, or other business partners. We must continue to expand and update this infrastructure in response to our changing requirements as well as evolving security standards and risks. In some cases, we may rely on third-party providers of hosting, support and other services to meet our information technology requirements. Any failure to manage, expand and update our information technology infrastructure, including our ERP system and other applications, any failure in the extension implementation or operation of this infrastructure, or any failure by our hosting and support partners or other third-party service providers in the performance of their services could harm our business. In addition, we have partnered with third parties to support our information technology systems and to help design, build, test, implement and maintain our information management systems. Our merger, acquisition and divestiture activity may also require transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information management systems within our overall enterprise architecture, including our ERP system and other applications. Those systems that we acquire or that are used by acquired entities or businesses may also pose security risks of which we are unaware or unable to mitigate, particularly during the transition of these systems. Like other companies, we are subject to ongoing attempts by malicious actors, including through hacking, malware, ransomware, denial-of-service attacks, social engineering, exploitation of internet-connected devices, and other attacks, to obtain unauthorized access to, or acquisition or other processing of confidential or other information or otherwise affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and information stored or otherwise processed on our systems. Cyber threats have increased in recent years, in part due to increased remote work and frequent attacks, including in the form of phishing emails, malware attachments and malicious websites. Additionally, geopolitical tensions, conflicts and wars, may increase our risks of cyber-attacks. Further, as artificial intelligence (“AI”) capabilities improve and become increasingly commonplace, cyber-attacks leveraging AI are likely to pose increasing threats. These attacks could, for example, leverage AI to directly attack information systems with increased speed and/or efficiency compared to a human threat actor, to identify or exploit security vulnerabilities, or to create more effective phishing emails. In addition, a vulnerability could be introduced from us or our third-party service providers incorporating output of an AI tool, such as AI-generated source code, that includes a threat. While we work to safeguard our internal systems and validate the security of our third-party service providers to mitigate these potential risks, including through information security policies and employee awareness and training, there is no assurance that such actions have been or will be sufficient to prevent cyber-attacks or security breaches or incidents. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, subject to social engineering attacks and other cyber-attacks, and these attacks may become more prevalent with a substantial portion of our workforce being distributed geographically, particularly given the resulting increased remote access to our networks and systems. Further, our third-party service providers may have been and may be in the future subject to such attacks or otherwise may suffer security breaches or incidents. In addition, actions by our employees, service providers, partners, contractors, or others, whether malicious or otherwise, could affect the security of our systems and information. Further, a breach or compromise of our information technology infrastructure or that of our third-party service providers could result in the misappropriation of intellectual property, business plans, trade secrets or other information. Additionally, while our security systems are designed to maintain the physical security of our facilities and information systems, accidental or willful security breaches or incidents or other unauthorized access by third parties to our facilities or our information systems could lead to unauthorized access to, or misappropriation, disclosure, or other processing of proprietary, confidential and other information. 26 Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems and those of our third-party service providers are vulnerable to damage from these or other types of attacks, errors, acts or omissions. In addition, our systems may be impacted by natural disasters, terrorism or other similar disruptions. Any system failure, disruption, accident or security breach or incident affecting us or our third-party service providers could result in disruptions to our operations and loss or unavailability of, or unauthorized access or damage to, inappropriate access to, or use, disclosure or other processing of confidential information and other information maintained or otherwise processed by us or on our behalf. Any actual or alleged disruption to, or security breach or incident affecting, our systems or those of our third-party partners could cause significant damage to our reputation, lead to theft or misappropriation of our intellectual property and trade secrets, result in claims, investigations, and other proceedings by or before regulators, and claims, demands and litigation, legal obligations or liability, affect our relationships with our customers, require us to bear significant remediation and other costs and ultimately harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against or mitigate damage caused by disruptions or security breaches or incidents. Our costs incurred in efforts to prevent, detect, alleviate or otherwise address cybersecurity or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant and such efforts may not be successful. All of these costs, expenses, liability and other matters may not be covered adequately by insurance and may result in an increase in our costs for insurance or insurance not being available to us on economically feasible terms, or at all. Insurers may also deny us coverage as to any future claim. Any of these results could harm our financial condition, business and reputation. Our revenues, operating results, and cash flows may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, which makes predicting financial results difficult. Spending on optical communication and laser products is subject to cyclical and uneven fluctuations, which could cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably. It can be difficult to predict the degree to which end-customer demand and the seasonality and uneven sales patterns of our OEM partners or other customers will affect our business in the future, particularly as we or they release new or enhanced products. We are also subject to changes in buying patterns among our OEM partners and other customers, including unpredictable changes in their desired inventory levels. Further, if our revenue mix changes, it may also cause results to differ from historical seasonality. Accordingly, our quarterly and annual revenues, operating results, cash flows, and other financial and operating metrics have and may in the future vary significantly in the future. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, the results of any prior periods should not be relied on as an indication of future performance. Quarterly fluctuations from the above factors may cause our revenue, operating results, and cash flows to underperform in relation to our guidance, long-term financial targets or the expectations of financial analysts or investors, which may cause volatility or decreases in our stock price. If we have insufficient proprietary rights or if we fail to protect our rights, our business could be harmed. We seek to protect our products, technologies, and product roadmaps in part through a combination of patents, trade secrets, know-how, trademarks, copyrights, and ongoing technological innovation. Our ability to protect our intellectual property is limited, however, because unauthorized use, misappropriation, or infringement of our proprietary rights is difficult, time-consuming, and costly to detect and prevent. The steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate to prevent third parties from misappropriating our technology or independently developing competing or similar products. Other companies may be developing technologies that are similar or superior to our own. In addition, there may be existing patents or other intellectual property rights of which we are unaware that could be relevant to our business. Patent applications are often not published until issued or published after a delay, and as such, we cannot be certain that our products do not infringe pending third-party patent applications. Our pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, and any patents that do issue may not provide sufficiently broad protection to prevent others from developing, making, using, or selling products similar to ours, or may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or deemed unenforceable. We do not hold intellectual property rights in every jurisdiction in which we sell or distribute our products. As a result, competitors may be able to offer identical or similar products in jurisdictions where we lack patent or other intellectual property protection. Further, intellectual property laws and enforcement mechanisms vary by jurisdiction, and certain regions, including Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. We rely on licenses to third-party technologies, and we are obligated to pay royalties under certain of these agreements. If we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain new licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, we may be unable to use important third-party technologies. This could delay or prevent the development of new products, restrict the sale of existing products, increase our costs, or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the use of open-source software in our products may subject us to license obligations that could require us to disclose proprietary source code or otherwise limit our ability to protect our intellectual property. 27 We seek to protect our trademarks, including the Lumentum brand, through registration and enforcement efforts in selected jurisdictions. However, we have not registered our trademarks in every country in which we operate, and third parties may be able to use identical or confusingly similar marks in jurisdictions where our trademarks are not registered or enforceable. Even where our trademarks are registered, third parties may challenge, oppose, or seek to invalidate those registrations, and our efforts to maintain and enforce trademark protection may not be sufficient or effective. A breach or failure of our information technology systems, or those of our third-party service providers, could result in the unauthorized access to, or misappropriation of, our intellectual property, trade secrets, or confidential business information. Any actual or perceived cybersecurity incident or other security breach could damage our reputation, disrupt our operations, and adversely affect our relationships with customers and partners. In addition, evolving legal and regulatory frameworks governing intellectual property rights related to artificial intelligence (“AI”) may create uncertainty regarding ownership, scope, or enforceability of intellectual property developed using AI-enabled tools. These developments could reduce the value or protectability of intellectual property created through AI-assisted processes and adversely affect our competitive position. Our products may be subject to claims that they infringe the intellectual property rights of others, the resolution of which may be time-consuming and expensive, as well as require a significant amount of resources to prosecute, defend, or make our products non-infringing. Our products may be subject to claims that they infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property litigation is common in our industry, and we have received, and may continue to receive, infringement claims from third parties. Such claims increasingly arise from (i) operating companies, including customers and competitors, seeking to monetize their patent portfolios, and (ii) non-practicing entities that do not manufacture or sell products. Defending against these claims, regardless of their merit, can be costly and time-consuming and may divert management and technical resources. If we are unsuccessful in defending against infringement claims, we may be required to pay damages, enter into costly license agreements, redesign products, or cease selling certain products. Licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, exclusionary orders or injunctions could limit our ability to manufacture or sell affected products, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We also provide indemnification to certain customers against intellectual property infringement claims and may incur significant costs in connection with defending and indemnifying such claims. We further face the risk of trademark infringement claims in various jurisdictions, which may increase as a result of acquisitions or expansion into new markets. The resolution of such claims, whether through litigation or settlement, could result in significant liability, significant expense, require changes to branding or product labeling, or prevent us from using certain trademarks, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We face certain litigation risks that could harm our business. We are now, and in the future, may become subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise in or outside the ordinary course of business. The results of legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, many of the complaints filed against us may not specify the amount of damages that plaintiffs seek, and we therefore may be unable to estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred should these lawsuits be resolved against us. While we may be unable to estimate the potential damages arising from such lawsuits, certain of them assert types of claims that, if resolved against us, could give rise to substantial damages or restrictions on or changes to our business. Thus, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of one or more of these lawsuits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Even if these lawsuits are not resolved against us, the uncertainty and expense associated with unresolved lawsuits could seriously harm our business, financial condition and reputation. Litigation is generally costly, time-consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. The costs of defending these lawsuits have been significant in the past, will continue to be costly and may not be covered by our insurance policies. The defense of these lawsuits could also result in continued diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. For additional discussion regarding litigation, refer to “Part I,