{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":351239,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
Item 1. Business of this Report. We believe the most important competitive factors in our industry are brand and reputation, data accuracy and quality, technology, breadth of data coverage, quality of investment and credit research and analytics, design, product reliability, and value of the products and services provided. 17 Table of Contents Research and Development A key aspect of our growth strategy is to expand and enhance our existing products and services. We strive to adopt new technology, including AI, that can improve our products and services. Our current AI product offerings incorporate both internally-developed and third-party models and are generally intended to simplify user access to Morningstar research and data, both through Morningstar applications and directly through AI platforms. As a general practice, we manage our own websites and build our own software rather than relying on outside vendors. This allows us to control our technology development and better manage costs, enabling us to respond quickly to market changes and to meet customer needs efficiently. Our research and development initiatives include the integration of AI and related technologies into our internal processes and products with the goal of improving employee productivity, supporting data acquisition and analysis, and enhancing the functionality and user experience of our offerings, which includes a focus on expanded delivery of our data and research to AI platforms and applications. Government Regulation In addition to generally applicable laws and regulations, certain subsidiaries of Morningstar are subject to laws and regulations specific to the business activities they engage in. These laws and regulations are most pervasive across all or most of the markets in which we operate our credit ratings, investment management, investment research, ESG research, ratings and data, and indexes businesses. Regulatory bodies or agencies that regulate our subsidiaries that are engaged in these activities often have broad administrative powers, including powers to prohibit or restrict engaging in regulated business activities in addition to powers to censure, impose fines, and require remedial undertakings in cases of noncompliance. The rules governing the regulation of these subsidiaries are detailed and technical. Accordingly, the discussion below , which is general in nature, does not purport to be complete and is subject to change based on future legislative, enforcement, and supervisory activities. Additional legislation and regulations , including those not tied to currently regulated activities or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules may adversely affect our business and profitability. Morningstar Credit Morningstar DBRS operates through licensed credit rating entities across major jurisdictions, each subject to local regulatory requirements (primarily relating to independent credit rating services in structured finance instruments, corporate credit issuer, insurance companies, and financial institutions), oversight, and periodic examination. • United States : Morningstar DBRS ’s US credit rating entity, DBRS, Inc., is registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization (NRSRO). DBRS, Inc. is subject to certain requirements, regulations, and annual examination under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). DBRS, Inc.’s affiliated rating agencies, DBRS Limited, DBRS Ratings Limited, DBRS Ratings GmbH and DBRS Ratings Pty Limited, are each also registered with the SEC as credit rating affiliates of DBRS, Inc. • Canada : Morningstar DBRS’s Canadian credit rating entity, DBRS Limited, is designated as a Designated Rating Organization (DRO) in Canada with the Ontario Securities Commission (OSC) as its principal regulator, and is subject to certain requirements, regulations, and examination by the OSC under National Instrument 25-101. DBRS Limited’s affiliated rating agencies, DBRS, Inc., DBRS Ratings Limited, and DBRS Ratings GmbH, are each also designated as DRO affiliates in Canada. • United Kingdom : Morningstar DBRS ’s credit rating entity located in the UK, DBRS Ratings Limited, is registered with, and regulated by, the UK Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as a credit rating agency and is subject to certain regulatory requirements in the UK primarily relating to record-keeping, reporting, governance, and conflicts of interest. • European Union : Morningstar DBRS ´s credit rating entity in the EU, DBRS Ratings GmbH (located in Frankfurt, Germany), which together with its branches, DBRS Ratings GmbH Sucursal en España (located in Madrid, Spain) and DBRS Ratings GmbH, Branch India (located in Mumbai, India) is registered with and regulated by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) as a credit rating agency under Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009, as amended. • Australia: Morningstar DBRS´s credit rating entity in Australia, DBRS Ratings Pty Limited, holds an Australian financial services license under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 (Au Act) to only provide credit ratings to "wholesale clients" within the meaning of section 761G of the Au Act. 18 Table of Contents Investment Management and Investment Research Morningstar provides investment management, advisor, and research services globally through subsidiaries registered with and supervised by local regulators. • United States: ◦ Morningstar Investment Management LLC (Morningstar Investment Management), is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (Advisers Act) and has fiduciary obligations to clients and is subject to examination by the SEC. In 2025, Morningstar Investment Services LLC and Morningstar Research Services LLC withdrew their registrations as investment advisers with the SEC. ◦ Morningstar Funds Trust (the Trust) is an SEC-registered open-end management investment company with Morningstar Investment Management serving as the sponsor and investment adviser of the Trust, subjecting it to the requirements of the Investment Company Act primarily relating to record-keeping, reporting, standards of care, valuation, and distribution. As sponsor and investment adviser to the Trust, Morningstar Investment Management is subject to examinations by the SEC. ◦ Connected with the Trust, Morningstar Investment Management is registered with the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) as a commodity pool operator (CPO) and a member of the National Futures Association (NFA). As a CPO, Morningstar Investment Management is subject to reporting and record-keeping requirements, as well as examinations by the NFA and/or the CFTC. ◦ In cases where these subsidiaries provide investment advisory services to retirement plans and their participants, they may be acting as fiduciaries under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). • Australia : Morningstar Australasia Pty Limited and Morningstar Investment Management Australia Limited are each registered under an Australian Financial Services license and subject to oversight by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC). The licenses require them to maintain positive net asset levels and minimum capital requirements, and to comply with the audit requirements of ASIC. Morningstar Investment Management Australia Limited is additionally the Responsible Entity and the issuer of units in managed funds for superannuation funds, institutions, platform distributors, financial advisers, and individuals within the Australian market. • United Kingdom: Morningstar Investment Management Europe Limited, Smart Investment Management Limited, Morningstar Wealth Administration Limited and Morningstar Wealth Retirement Services Limited are authorized and regulated by the FCA to advise, arrange, and manage investments across financial instruments. All firms are subject to the applicable requirements of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. • United Arab Emirates: Morningstar Wealth Administration Limited operates a branch office in the Dubai International Financial Centre, pursuant to the applicable requirements and regulations defined in the Dubai Financial Services Authority Rulebook. • Channel Islands: Morningstar Wealth International Limited is authorized and regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission to deal in investments through an investment platform, subject to the applicable requirements and regulations set out in the Jersey Financial Services Commission Handbooks and Codes of Practice. • South Africa: Morningstar Investment Management South Africa (Pty) Ltd is authorized and regulated by the South African Financial Sector Conduct Authority to provide certain financial services under both Category I (advisory) and Category II (discretionary) licenses , with activities subject to associated product approvals granted by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority. • Other Regions: Entities in other regions (including in Hong Kong, India, Japan, and Singapore, among others) are registered with their respective regulatory bodies but conduct limited regulated business activity to date (although this may change). Morningstar Sustainalytics GES International AB, a subsidiary of Morningstar Sustainalytics previously notified the Swedish Finansinspektionen under Section 3 of the Act on Proxy Advisors of its business activity as a proxy advisor in Sweden. In accordance with the UK Proxy Advisors (Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2019, Sustainalytics UK Ltd. was added to the FCA’s list of Proxy Advisors in early 2022 and is subject to certain disclosure and governance requirements. 19 Table of Contents T he provision of ESG ratings and data is the subject of both pending and proposed legislation and regulation . We continue to monitor pending and proposed ESG ratings and data legislation and regulations in the jurisdictions we operate in, including the UK. A program of regulatory readiness is currently underway aimed at adapting Morningstar Sustainalytics' business model, operational processes, and corporate organization for the purposes of the new EU ESG Rating Provider Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2024/3005). Morningstar Indexes Morningstar Indexes Limited was historically registered and authorized by the FCA as a UK benchmark administrator, and Morningstar Indexes GmbH was registered and authorized by the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) as an EU benchmark administrator. In 2025, the transfer of administration of UK benchmarks to Morningstar Indexes GmbH was formally completed and the UK authorization terminated. Morningstar Indexes GmbH continues to be registered with, and regulated by, BaFin and is authorized to act as an EU benchmark administrator. Effective January 2026, amendments to the EU Benchmark Regulation removed all benchmarks other than those benchmarks with significant economic relevance for the EU market or that contribute to key EU policies, from the regulation’s scope. The result is that the majority of Morningstar Indexes’ benchmarks will technically fall out of scope of the EU Benchmark Regulation Morningstar Indexes GmbH is registered with, and regulated by, the BaFin and is authorized to act as an EU benchmark administrator. Information about our Executive Officers As of January 1, 2026, our executive officers were the following individuals*: Name Age Position Joe Mansueto 69 Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board Kunal Kapoor 50 Chief Executive Officer Michael Holt 46 Chief Financial Officer *Effective November 21, 2025, our former chief revenue officer, Danny Dunn, departed the company. Joe Mansueto Joe Mansueto founded Morningstar in 1984 and became executive chairman in 2017. He has served as chairman of the board of directors from the company’s inception, and as chief executive officer from 1984 to 1996 and again from 2000 to 2016. Under Mansueto’s leadership, Morningstar was recognized as a top employer from the Chicago Tribune and Fortune, a fast-growing company from Crain’s Chicago Business, and a leader in design from AIGA Chicago Chapter. Mansueto has been named to lists of influencers and innovators by Chicago Magazine, InvestmentNews, MutualFundWire.com, and SmartMoney. He has received awards from PlanSponsor, Tiburon, and the University of Chicago. Before founding Morningstar, Mansueto was a securities analyst at Harris Associates. He holds a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the University of Chicago and a master’s degree in business administration from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Mansueto owns two soccer teams, Chicago Fire FC and FC Lugano, and invests in several media companies, real estate properties and other business and philanthropic ventures. He previously served on the board of directors of Whole Foods Market, Inc. Kunal Kapoor Kunal Kapoor, CFA, is chief executive officer of Morningstar. Before assuming his current role in 2017, he served as president, responsible for product development and innovation, sales and marketing, and driving strategic prioritization across the firm. 20 Table of Contents Since joining Morningstar in 1997 as a data analyst, Kapoor has held a variety of roles at the firm, including leadership positions in research and innovation. He served as director of mutual fund research and was part of the team that launched Morningstar Investment Services, Inc., before moving on to other roles including director of business strategy for international operations, and later, president and chief investment officer of Morningstar Investment Services. During his tenure, he also led Morningstar.com® and the firm’s data business as well as its global products and client solutions group. Kapoor holds a bachelor’s degree in economics and environmental policy from Monmouth College and a master’s degree in business administration from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. He also holds the Chartered Financial Analyst® designation, is a member of the CFA Society of Chicago, and served on the board of PitchBook, prior to its acquisition by Morningstar in late 2016. Kapoor is also a member of the board of directors of Wealth Enhancement Group, a privately-owned independent wealth management firm, a member of the Council on Chicago Booth, and serves on the boards of several Chicago non-profit organizations. In 2010, Crain’s Chicago Business named him to its annual 40 Under 40 class, a list that includes professionals from a variety of industries who are contributing to Chicago’s business, civic, and philanthropic landscape. Michael Holt Michael Holt, CFA, is chief financial officer of Morningstar, responsible for controllership, tax, internal audit, financial planning and analysis, procurement, treasury, real estate and facilities, and investor relations. Before assuming his current role in 2025, Holt served as Morningstar’s chief strategy officer for seven years and, in 2023, was also named president of Morningstar's Research and Investments group, overseeing the 400-person team responsible for Morningstar’s rigorous, independent equity and managed investment analysis and ratings as well as portfolio construction for the company’s investment management capabilities. Holt first joined Morningstar in 2008 as an equity analyst, and his strengths in assessing company value and competitive advantage earned him progressively more senior roles over the following six years. He led the global equity research team from 2014 to 2018, before he assumed the corporate strategy position, in which he played an important role in growing Morningstar’s revenue profile and set of capabilities through capital allocation and acquisitions. He holds the Chartered Financial Analyst® designation, a master’s degree in business administration from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, and a bachelor’s degree in business from Indiana University. Company Information Morningstar, Inc. was incorporated in Illinois on May 16, 1984. Our corporate headquarters is located at 22 West Washington Street, Chicago, Illinois, 60602. We maintain a corporate website at http://www.morningstar.com/company . Shareholders and other interested parties may access our investor relations website at http://shareholders.morningstar.com , which we use as a primary channel for disclosing key information to our investors, some of which may contain material and previously non-public information. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to any of these documents are available free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed with or furnished to the SEC. We also post quarterly press releases on our financial results and other documents containing additional information related to Morningstar on this site. We provide this website and the information contained in or connected to it for informational purposes only. That information is not part of this Report. 21 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all of the other information included in this Report when deciding whether to invest in our common stock or otherwise evaluating our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties materialize, our business, financial condition, or operating results could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our operations could also be affected by other risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Failing to maintain and protect our brand, independence, and reputation may harm our business. Our reputation and business may also be negatively impacted by allegations made about possible conflicts of interest, lack of independence, or by other negative publicity or media reports. We believe our reputation, brand, and the value of our products and services are built on the trust that our users have in our commitment to empowering investor success through independence, transparency, and a long-term focus. Any real or perceived failure to uphold these principles, including lapses in employee integrity or independence, may harm our reputation. Additionally, real or perceived errors in our products or negative customer or employee experiences could further damage our reputation. Our reputation and brand could also be impacted by factors beyond our control, such as negative news about our clients, suppliers, employees, consultants, or competitors, regulatory scrutiny, and adverse publicity about our products or industries that we operate in. Expanding our brand to less mission-aligned products may also harm our reputation or dilute our brand. As our business continues to evolve and expand, we have entered and may in the future enter into business lines and/or arrangements that may raise concerns about potential conflicts of interest or perceived independence failures. We provide ratings and research on our clients’ investment products, such as ETFs and mutual funds, and we typically charge a licensing fee to use our ratings. We also provide investment advisory and management services, including through our own series of mutual funds, which expose us to claims that we are both the referee and the player in the same industry. Our issuer-pay model in our credit ratings business and for certain of our other ratings products, for which we receive payments from issuers for our ratings versus from the investor consuming such ratings, may also lead to perceptions that our research and ratings in these areas are not independently determined. Certain of our products and methodologies, including those of Morningstar Sustainalytics, have placed, and may in the future, place us at the center of public debate on sustainability, social, and corporate governance issues, or result in scrutiny of our clients. This scrutiny may affect product demand and may result in negative media coverage, reputational harm, or increased regulatory attention. Failure to effectively and successfully navigate these independence and reputational challenges could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Failing to create and maintain innovative, proprietary, and insightful product and service offerings, keep pace with new investor requirements, technology developments, and trends, or anticipate our clients’ changing needs may negatively affect our competitive position and business. We believe rapid innovation and technological advances in financial information services and investable products are changing how investors and intermediaries’ access and use data. These changes may result in our existing products becoming less competitive or obsolete. Our future success will continue to depend on our ability to develop new products and enhancements that address and support the evolving needs of our current and target markets, as well as on our ability to keep pace with competitors. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to continuously innovate and effectively incorporate or deploy new datasets, research, AI technologies, content, or software to meet evolving customer needs, our competitive position may suffer. Our reputation would be harmed if we are seen as slow to adapt to meet the changing needs of investors or their financial advisors, especially as customers expect more personalized advice and greater data security. Increased interest in alternative assets, such as private market offerings, require new expertise and data. Competitors who innovate faster or offer broader solutions may outpace us. Our investments in new products, especially those involving AI technologies, carry execution risks and challenges and may not deliver expected benefits, such as generating revenue or cost savings, or creating efficiencies in our processes. Additionally, we cannot guarantee we will successfully adapt or seamlessly transition to new product offerings. Failure to successfully manage these transitions and investments would materially and adversely affect our reputation, operating results and financial condition. As financial intermediary customers further automate their processes, demand for our products may shift, making technological flexibility and system interoperability increasingly important. Clients increasingly expect technology solutions that address specific needs, such as integrated wealth management capabilities. Our technology heavily relies on the quality and comprehensiveness of our data and our ability to build valuable analytics, research, and intellectual property around it. Delivering personalized advice that clients value requires collecting, organizing, and analyzing large, diverse datasets. If we fail to adequately allocate resources to meet client demands, we may lose our competitive advantage, which could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Changing economic conditions, including prolonged volatility, recessions, or downturns affecting the financial sector and global financial markets, fluctuating interest rates, and the impacts of global trade policies, may negatively impact our business. Our business performance is influenced by external factors such as economic and financial market trends, credit availability, changing laws or trade policy, currency fluctuations, and geopolitical uncertainties. Extended economic or market downturns, or volatility, interest and inflation rate shifts, and stagflation, among other factors, may dampen investment activity, thereby reducing demand for our products and services. In recent years, uncertain economic conditions, including those caused by tariffs and retaliatory trade measures, have decreased asset values under management and may do so again in the future. Further, market sentiment regarding the impact of AI on software an data company growth prospects has driven meaningful recent sector-wide stock price declines, including Morningstar's. We cannot predict the timing or duration of economic cycles, sector-focused market downturns or the direct and indirect effects or duration of trade or other economic policy impacts on our business, assets, operating results, and financial condition. Our asset-based revenue depends on the value of assets under our advisory services, which fluctuates with market performance. Economic or market declines, reduced inflows, or increased redemptions, driven by market conditions or poor investment performance, can lower asset levels and, consequently, our fee-based revenue. Industry trends toward lower asset-based fees may further impact revenue. Additionally, if investors shift to non-traditional asset classes such as cryptocurrencies, private debt, real estate, structured products, or collectibles, and we cannot effectively incorporate or anticipate their performance, our assets under management may be negatively affected. Many of our license-based customers are asset management and financial advisory firms, whose businesses may be impacted by global market trends. The rise of passive investment strategies may diminish the perceived value of our research on active strategies. Prolonged recessions, financial crises, and other economic uncertainties have in the past and could in the future prompt significant spending cuts and lengthen sales cycles among clients. Industry consolidation has the potential to reduce our client base, and clients may discontinue using our products and services if they fail, merge, or are acquired by non-clients or firms using fewer of our services. These factors may decrease demand for our offerings. Fluctuations in interest rates and central bank decisions have reduced credit issuance in the past and may do so in the future, negatively impacting our credit ratings business. For example, our credit ratings business depends on the volume and value of debt securities issued, making it vulnerable to market volatility, rising interest rates, widening credit spreads, and economic slowdowns. Demand for credit ratings may also decline due to negative publicity, regulatory or political changes, increased use of alternative credit sources, or defaults by major issuers. Our ability to reduce costs in adverse conditions may be limited by our obligations to monitor and maintain outstanding ratings. Our PitchBook business is also subject to cyclical trends specific to the private capital markets. Many of PitchBook’s clients are investment banks and other participants in the capital and M&A markets, which are subject to periodic business downturns driven by changes in such markets. During these downturns, they often seek to reduce spending on third-party services, as well as the number of employees, which would directly and adversely affect the length of sales cycles and the number of prospective users for the PitchBook platform. 23 Table of Contents Changing economic conditions or market trends could affect demand for products and services or asset values, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Information Technology and Security We could face significant reputational, operational, and financial consequences relating to cybersecurity and the protection of confidential information, including personal information about individuals. Our business requires that we securely collect, process, store, and transmit confidential information including sensitive personal information relating to our operations, customers, employees and other third parties. We continuously invest in measures designed to protect this information, but we cannot guarantee absolute security. Improper access or release of data may still occur due to employee or vendor error, system issues, failure to consistently apply security practices across our business, or cyberattacks. We may also be subject to specific legal or contractual obligations relating to personal information and personal financial information, as in certain cases our products and services handle, store, and transmit personal information. Due to the global nature of our business, personal information is routinely moved from one jurisdiction to another, subjecting us and our customers to complex and evolving federal, state and foreign privacy, cybersecurity, and data protection laws, which may vary across geographies. Restrictions on cross-border data transfers and conflicting regulations may enhance compliance obligations and associated costs. As a global business, we regularly seek to optimize our data storage to enhance information accuracy and streamline our technology, which supports our operations. However, data privacy laws such as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) impose obligations on the storage, transfer, and use of personal information, potentially restricting the processing of data about individuals outside of their home jurisdictions. Legislation aimed at protecting material nonpublic information or mitigating potential conflicts of interest further defines how we access and retain certain data, potentially resulting in less efficient or more costly technological processes and infrastructure. One of our core strengths is our ability to collect data and enrich it with data from another part of our business to provide valuable information and insights to investors. As data is accessible across our products, consistent data privacy practices and disclosure become more important and challenging. Failure to comply with our public statements or to adequately disclose our privacy or data protection practices could result in costly investigations by government authorities, litigation, and fines, as well as reputational damage and customer loss. We may be subject to increasingly frequent and sophisticated cyberattacks by actors with substantial resources and advanced capabilities that could overcome the defensive measures of our security program. These actors have targeted, and may target, our products, people, services, and network infrastructure to access intellectual property, confidential or personal information, or disrupt operations (e.g., distributed denial of service attacks or ransomware). Though we have dedicated resources and protective measures designed to identify and mitigate cyberattacks, such attacks continue to evolve, can be difficult to detect, and may go unnoticed for extended periods. Our measures may not be adequate or designed to prevent all eventualities or all types of attacks. We may be vulnerable to circumvention of security systems, denial of service attacks or other cyberattacks, hacking including “hacktivism,” “phishing,” or other social engineering attacks, malware, ransomware, employee or insider errors, employee or vendor malfeasance, physical breaches, or other malicious actions. Additionally, remote work and the use of personal devices introduce additional risk management challenges. We may also be impacted by a cyberattack targeting one of our vendors or other supplier/service provider within our technology supply chain or infrastructure, including cloud providers. As we expand our product and service offerings, we increasingly share confidential and proprietary data with third-party vendors, service providers, and software as a service (SaaS) platforms. This growing exposure to third parties introduces the risk that inadequacies in their security technologies, practices, or monitoring could result in unauthorized access, data breaches, or other cybersecurity incidents, that could impact us and our customers. 24 Table of Contents From time to time, we have acquired, and may in the future acquire, other businesses or assets. While we conduct due diligence on the products, technology systems, and practices of these companies, we may inherit existing or undiscovered security vulnerabilities, data breaches, or system intrusions for which we could be liable. Acquired products and technologies may expose us to additional security risks, integration delays, increased costs to meet our security standards, and challenges in augmenting the acquired technologies to levels consistent with our brand and reputation. These businesses may also have less advanced security or data privacy controls, introducing further risks as their systems are integrated with ours. While we maintain recovery capabilities intended to restore operations and data integrity following a cybersecurity incident, these capabilities are not absolute and are subject to similar limitations and uncertainties as our preventive measures. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that all attack vectors can be fully mitigated or that recovery will be complete or timely in all circumstances. Any failure to protect confidential information or any material significant cybersecurity incident, whether in our systems or those of third parties handling our data, could lead to reputational damage, operational challenges, loss of customers, regulatory actions, sanctions, or other penalties, litigation, financial losses, and increased mitigation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. AI technologies may present business, legal, compliance, and reputational risks as they are incorporated into our products and tools. We use, and may expand our use of, AI technologies across our products, internal tools, and third ‑ party SaaS platforms. While AI offers opportunities to improve efficiency and innovation, it also introduces risks. If we fail to keep pace with AI advancements, or if competitors adopt AI more effectively, our competitive position may be harmed. Slow internal adoption could reduce operational effectiveness, while AI ‑ generated errors may be incorporated into our processes or products. Our use of AI technologies may require investment of resources and costs to develop, test, and maintain related products and services, and there is no assurance that these investments will be successful. The rapid evolution and adoption of AI may create operational risks that may be difficult to anticipate or control, particularly where we rely on third ‑ party platforms. These risks could lead to operational inefficiencies, reputational harm, or compliance challenges. The pace of adoption and use of AI technologies, including generative AI, in our products and processes may increase compliance obligations, regulatory scrutiny, litigation exposure, ethical concerns, and confidentiality or security risks. For example, AI systems may generate content that appears correct but is inaccurate, misleading, biased, or discriminatory, which, if relied upon and attributed to us, could harm our reputation and expose us to liability. We may also face risks relating to data privacy or cybersecurity incidents stemming from our use of AI technologies. Emerging laws and regulations governing AI - such as the EU Artificial Intelligence Act and other evolving global frameworks - may impose burdensome requirements or restrict the deployment of certain AI capabilities in our offerings, and regulations on AI are developing at varying paces, meaning the global regulatory landscape is uncertain and could potentially require significant changes to comply with emerging laws, which could have significant costs. As regulators introduce new or updated AI ‑ related rules, we may incur substantial compliance costs or be required to adjust our business practices, and failure to timely or adequately address these evolving obligations could result in significant costs, liabilities, or fines. Because AI is complex and rapidly developing, it is not possible to predict all of the legal, operational, or technological risks that may arise relating to our use of AI. AI technologies may use or incorporate data from third-party sources, which may expose us to risks associated with data rights and protection and may also lead to the unintended consequences of using AI discussed above. Current laws and court decisions governing intellectual property ownership and license rights may not address new questions relating to AI technologies, which may negatively affect our ability to safeguard our intellectual property, as well as increase the compliance costs associated with navigating an uncertain legal and regulatory environment. The use or adoption of AI technologies into our products may expose us to claims of copyright infringement or other intellectual property misappropriation by third parties, which may require us to pay compensation or license fees. In addition, increased use of AI technologies may affect our workforce needs, including our ability to recruit, attract, or retain employees with the skills necessary to support AI-enabled products and processes. We may also face challenges if portions of our existing workforce do not possess, or cannot efficiently develop, the rapidly evolving skill sets required to meet changing business demands, which could adversely impact our operations and competitiveness. 25 Table of Contents In addition, the implementation of AI technologies by competitors and disruptors presents risks to our business. The value of our products and services may be negatively affected by the increasing amount of information and external tools that are available online for free, or at low cost, that use AI to scrape data – including our own content – from the Internet. These technologies integrate machine learning abilities and other AI systems to process and organize large data sets aggregated from products that previously were paid for, posing an external risk to our product suite. The rapidly evolving regulatory environment for AI technologies may also impact our ability to protect our own data and intellectual property against infringement or unintended use through these external AI tools. We could face liability stemming from the accuracy and use of our research, ratings, and published data, and our dependence on ingested third-party data, licensed content, and open-source components. We may face claims related to securities law violations, defamation, negligence, or other issues arising from the information we publish, including our research and ratings. For example, investors could take legal action against us if they rely on published information that contains an error, or companies may claim we have made a defamatory statement about them or their employees. In our credit ratings business, we have access to significant amounts of material non-public information on issuers of securities, and any inadvertent disclosure or real or perceived misuse of such information could expose us to legal liability. Even minor errors may require us to temporarily remove ratings or research, potentially reducing the perceived value of our products or causing us to fall short of service-level commitments to customers. Some of our products are used by clients to support investment processes, account reporting, and other activities involving significant third-party assets. This creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets they manage, may bring claims against us for losses linked to our products. We may also face regulatory investigations related to our products and their use by clients. While the contracts for our software products generally contain limitations on our liability, we may still need to compensate clients or their customers to preserve business relationships. Additionally, we could face claims related to content that is accessible through links on our website. Products and enhancements that we develop or license have contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors or defects despite testing or other quality-assurance practices. Use of our products or services as part of the investment processes and other activities, by our customers, investors, companies that we rate or assess, or their shareholders could subject us to claims for errors in our data, calculations, methodologies, inputs, analysis, or system failures. We may also face claims from providers of data and information we compile from websites and other sources, alleging we have obtained the data in violation of the source’s terms of use or copyrights. We may face claims from third parties, such as securities exchanges from which we license and redistribute data and information, alleging improper use or redistribution of licensed data, or that we have inadequately permissioned our clients to use such data. These agreements often grant extensive audit rights, which have in the past and in the future may be triggered, and can be costly, time-consuming, and may result in substantial fees. Regulators may also claim we have mishandled private ratings or nonpublic data, particularly in our credit ratings business. These regulators have audit rights regarding our data use which could have similar adverse consequences in terms of time, expenses, or fines. Defending claims based on the information we publish could be expensive and time-consuming and could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Additionally, we use and incorporate open-source code in our software development and products, which could expose us to additional security risks, increase costs, and complicate the commercialization of our products and services. Security vulnerabilities due to the use of open-source software could require additional testing, change control, or re-engineering, potentially increasing costs and impacting our development processes and products. Open-source licenses typically lack warranties for infringement claims or covering the quality or security of the code, and some may require public release of our proprietary source code if combined in certain ways, potentially putting us at a competitive disadvantage. Many open-source licenses are ambiguous and have not been widely interpreted by US or other courts, and any unexpected restrictions or claims could require us to seek alternative licenses at increased costs or reduced scope, re-engineer products or systems, or discontinue the licensing of certain products. 26 Table of Contents Failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or claims of intellectual property infringement against us, could harm our brand, our financial results, and our competitive position. We rely primarily on trademarks, copyright, patents and trade secret rights, as well as contractual protections and technical safeguards, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information. These measures may not be adequate to safeguard our brand or competitive advantage, and third parties could challenge, circumvent, or improperly access our intellectual property and proprietary information. Additionally, jurisdictions in which we operate may lack strong intellectual property protections, which increases our vulnerability to unauthorized use or disclosure and may undermine our competitive position, particularly in non-US markets. Even where legal protections exist, defending these rights can require significant cost, time, and resources with no guarantee of success. We believe our trademark rights in the “Morningstar” name and logo, and those of our subsidiaries represent materially valuable intangible assets. We have encountered and may continue to encounter jurisdictions in which third parties hold pre-existing trademark registrations or use the “Morningstar” name, either as part of a registered corporate name or domain name, or otherwise. This may prevent us from registering or using our marks and could limit our ability to market products or secure trademark protection in those locations. We have been and may continue to be subject to claims by third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. Such claims can also be alleged against clients, customers, or distributors of our products and services with whom we have agreed to provide indemnification protection. The defense of such claims can be costly, time consuming, and disruptive and lead to unfavorable outcomes requiring us to pay damages, enter disadvantageous licensing or royalty agreements, incur litigation and settlement costs, or suspend affected products or services, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Our reputation, financial condition, and operating results may be adversely impacted by any failure by us to successfully assert or enforce our intellectual property rights or by any alleged intellectual property infringement claims by a third party. In addition, unauthorized third parties may attempt to imitate or fraudulently use our brand, websites, or other digital assets, such as through website spoofing or phishing attacks, which could result in reputational harm, financial loss for individuals, or impede our ability to attract and retain customers. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters Compliance failures, regulatory action, or changes in laws could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to extensive and evolving laws, rules, and regulations that vary by jurisdiction. We have not always been able to, and in the future may not be able to, comply with the changing substance, application, and interpretation of such laws, rules, and regulations without making significant modifications to our operations. The increasing pace and scope of global regulatory changes heightens the potential risk of failing to identify or respond to new or expanded obligations in a timely manner. Regulations focused on increasing investor transparency or providing individuals with greater control over their own data may reduce the value or utility of the investments we have made in our data sets. The global nature of our operations makes monitoring and implementing regulatory changes more complex. Noncompliance could result in fines, sanctions, restrictions, and/or other penalties that could affect our products and services, and harm our reputation, operating results, and financial condition. We are also subject to certain anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions where we do business, which prohibit the improper offering, promising, authorizing, or giving anything of value to foreign government officials, or business employees for the purpose of directing, obtaining, or retaining business. We conduct business in countries and regions with varying anti-corruption laws and that have experienced government corruption to some degree, which may increase the pressure and risk of inadvertent violations by our employees or agents, despite our policies and training. Any violation of anti-corruption laws could lead to regulatory penalties, government investigations, administrative, civil or criminal penalties, government investigations, and/or other remedial measures, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, and also cause reputational and brand damage. As we engage in global business activities, we are subject to international trade restraints, including economic and financial sanction laws and embargoes, administered by the US Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Controls, which prohibit or restrict the sale or supply of certain products or services to certain regions, countries, entities, governments, and individuals. These restrictions have impacted and may in the future impact our ability to continue to market and sell our products in these geographies, resulting in loss of revenue. While we have compliance measures in place to promote adherence to applicable restrictions, they may not always be effective. 27 Table of Contents These and new restrictions could further impact our operations, increase compliance costs, and expose us to fines or investigations, which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Several of our businesses are highly regulated throughout the world, and the regulatory environment is increasingly complicated and rapidly evolving. The expansion of our business, including through acquisitions, has increased our exposure to government regulation across our product lines. Some areas require extensive and ongoing interactions with regulators, which is an increasingly costly and resource intensive process and could result in a finding of noncompliance, which could expose us to fines, sanctions, penalties and reputational risk. Morningstar DBRS, our credit ratings business, operates in highly regulated environments in Canada, the US, the UK, Australia, and the EU, with substantial ongoing compliance obligations. The scope and interpretation of these regulations can be uncertain and inconsistent across jurisdictions, making compliance challenging and costly. Adhering to any current or expanded requirements that may arise under these frameworks can be complex, resource-intensive, and time-consuming. In addition, Morningstar DBRS is subject to regular regulatory examinations and occasional investigations, which can be time consuming and impact day to day operations. In the US, Morningstar Investment Management LLC (MIM), is a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the 40 Act), and is subject to SEC requirements for record-keeping, reporting, standards of care, and fiduciary obligations. The Morningstar Funds Trust, an open-end mutual fund advised by MIM, subjects MIM to additional 40 Act requirements and the Commodity Exchange Act. These entities face SEC examinations and, when advising retirement plans, may act as Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) fiduciaries, which would require compliance with strict obligations. Breaches, actual or alleged, could result in liability, particularly in retirement advice and managed accounts. Some contracts designate us as ERISA fiduciaries, including selecting and monitoring plan options, and we offer managed account services for plan participants. Such activities have been and may again be subject to class action litigation, including one current case. Many asset management and financial advisor clients are similarly regulated. The failure of our licensed products to meet their regulatory requirements could lead to loss of business. Our regulated investment services operations are subject to regulation in markets outside the US. Post Brexit, we made a strategic decision to restrict the provision of regulated investment management activity to EU domiciled clients in part to reduce regulatory risk. The UK-based Morningstar Wealth Platform (Platform) has regulatory compliance obligations related to, among other things, the safeguarding and administration of client monies and assets, due to the offering of regulated products and services in the UK. The Platform business has offices in Jersey, South Africa, and the United Arab Emirates, all of which are or have been subject to the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) grey list. Increased regulatory scrutiny in Jersey, which was recently removed from the FATF grey list, and South Africa, which is currently on the FATF grey list, increase compliance costs and exposes us to potential reputational harm. Our Indexes business, Morningstar Indexes, is subject to the EU Benchmarks Regulation, which mandates certain governance requirements, conflict management, and controls over the benchmark process and require administrators to improve the quality of input data and methodologies. We also closely monitor US regulatory developments, as the SEC has sought comment on whether index providers, model portfolio providers, and pricing services should be regulated as investment advisers or outsourced service providers. If adopted, these changes could significantly increase our regulatory exposure and compliance costs. Morningstar Sustainalytics may face increased regulation of its research, ratings, and data activities. EU rules for ESG ratings providers, which become effective in 2026, will require significant investment in governance, internal controls, and compliance processes. We have established a regulatory readiness program, and we continue to make significant investments in governance, internal controls, and compliance processes. Many jurisdictions have already established regulations regarding the provision and distribution of ESG data and ratings. Others, such as the UK, are developing similar frameworks, which may differ from EU requirements. The final form of these regulations remains uncertain, but they could impose substantial compliance burdens and risk of inadvertent noncompliance. As Sustainalytics operates globally, future regulations may be inconsistent across markets. Conversely, deregulation could reduce demand for our products. Failure to address this evolving landscape adequately and promptly could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Environmental, social, and governance considerations could result in enhanced regulatory obligations and expose us to potential liabilities and increased costs. In response to market demand, we offer products, including those from Morningstar Sustainalytics, that may expose us to liability and higher regulatory costs. New and evolving environmental, social, and governance regulations are being introduced, amended, or revoked in the EU, the US, and other jurisdictions, requiring compliance with specific frameworks and disclosure obligations. For example, the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) applies to both EU and non-EU entities in scope and mandates extensive disclosures on sustainability topics such as climate change, biodiversity, workforce, supply chain, and business ethics, and may apply to our operations based on recent legal developments. In contrast, the future of any US regulation of sustainability matters is uncertain, and if adopted may not align with the disclosures required by the CSRD or other legal and regulatory requirements. Similarly, a number of US states have passed, or are in the process of adopting, broad climate change disclosure requirements, such as the Climate Corporate Data Accountability Act and Climate-Related Financial Risk Act in California, the future scope and implementation of which also remains uncertain. We have announced decarbonization goals and other initiatives, guided by standards such as the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Morningstar has committed to decarbonizing 50% of our scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and to publicly disclosing our emissions annually. Implementing these initiatives and complying with new or amended regulations may require significant resources and management attention. Any failure, or perceived failure, to fully comply with mandatory ESG requirements or voluntary ESG standards could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. At the same time, we may face evolving and sometimes conflicting expectations from various stakeholders regarding our business practices and company activities, including environmental, social and governance matters. These expectations may increase operational complexity and place additional demands on our employees, systems, and resources. Different stakeholders may hold differing views on such matters, increasing the risk that actions we take, or fail to take, are perceived negatively by certain groups. Public sentiment and the broader sociopolitical environment may shift rapidly and unpredictably, and we may not be able to anticipate or respond to such changes within expected timeframes or without incurring significant costs. If we do not effectively manage such evolving expectations, we could experience reputational harm, stakeholder disengagement, litigation, or other adverse consequences, which may adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Errors in our automated advisory tools may subject us to liability for any losses that result. We rely on automated investment technology for retirement advice and managed accounts, including the Wealth Forecasting Engine, which determines asset allocations and assigns portfolios, as well as other automated portfolio construction tools. As these systems become more interconnected with other product offerings and integrate with client and third-party technology, complexity increases, requiring greater expertise and testing. Problems could arise if these systems do not work as intended. Any errors, especially ones undetected over time, could result in liability, including breaches of fiduciary duty or applicable law, despite our quality assurance practices. We continually invest in training to maintain in-house expertise and educate record-keepers, plan sponsors, and participants on the proper use and differentiation of these offerings, which is costly and time-consuming. We seek to continually enhance our retirement services, adding capabilities such as modeling and advising on income-generating products, and regularly release technology updates and methodology changes. Clients may require additional support to implement updates and understand their implications, including strategy suitability. We also allocate resources to support legacy versions of the Wealth Forecasting Engine still in use. Errors in updates or methodology could result in significant liabilities, including make-whole payments or litigation. Risks Related to Our Operations Our future success depends on our ability to recruit, develop, and retain qualified employees. Our continued success depends on attracting, hiring, and onboarding qualified employees. Many of our key offerings require specialized skills in areas such as engineering, research, quantitative analysis, fixed income data, and credit analysis, as well as emerging strategic disciplines. These skills are highly sought after, creating strong competition for talent. The development, maintenance, and support of our products also rely on the expertise and experience of our existing employees. 29 Table of Contents As a global business with a distributed workforce, we face recruiting challenges across many locations. Managing employees across geographies introduces complexities, including implementing systems, policies, benefits, and compliance programs, and addressing external factors such as geopolitical unrest. Rising wage scales in key markets, inflationary pressures, strong sector stock performance in the sectors where we focus hiring efforts, immigration policies, regulatory changes, and skill shortages increase compensation costs and can make it harder to attract and retain qualified employees. We invest in employee development through programs such as learning tools and educational stipends and encourage engagement. Shifts in labor markets, such as moves toward or away from remote or hybrid work, may affect retention. Integration of acquired businesses or sunsetting brands can also impact culture and morale, potentially leading to unforeseen attrition. We believe our success depends on the continued service of our executive officers, including Joe Mansueto, our executive chairman, and Kunal Kapoor, our chief executive officer, as well as senior leaders and other key employees. Their experience and expertise make them attractive to competitors and early-stage companies that can offer significant financial incentives. Loss of these leaders, or inadequate succession planning, or loss of key employees could pose substantial challenges, including loss of potential or existing clients, and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are dependent on third-party service providers. We rely on certain external sources for data and research, including securities exchanges, fund companies, issuers, and other providers, as well as third-party data for many of our products. Certain data feeds create sole-source dependency, and any service degradation could harm our products and expose us to downstream risk. External data may contain errors, affecting product accuracy and customer confidence. Our innovation depends on vendor products, including data, software, and services. Some offerings require ongoing updates and access to historical data. Many vendors are also competitors, and termination of agreements, changes in terms, or restrictions on data use relating to such vendors could materially harm our business. We use AI technologies from third parties, including AI product engines and open-source software. If we are unable to maintain rights to use these AI technologies on commercially reasonable terms, or if third-party suppliers discontinue or materially change their offerings, we may be forced to acquire or develop alternate AI technologies. Such changes could be difficult and costly to implement, may limit or delay our ability to provide competitive offerings, and could significantly increase our costs. Additionally, reliance on third-party AI suppliers may create switching challenges due to integration complexity, proprietary dependencies, and retraining requirements. Moreover, the risks described above with respect to our own AI systems—including the possibility that such systems generate inaccurate, misleading, biased, or discriminatory content that could harm our reputation and expose us to liability—would similarly apply to AI technologies supplied by third ‑ party vendors and could materially harm us if they occur. We rely on numerous third-party service providers, including for contract labor, SaaS, and data backup facilities. Failure by a provider could disrupt our ability to deliver products and services and require significant costs to internalize functions or find adequate alternatives. For limited products and regions, we are subject to vendor oversight regulations, such as the EU’s Digital Operational Resilience Act, which increases compliance obligations and costs. Inadequate due diligence relating to or oversight of third parties, such as failing to detect conflicts of interest, fraud, data breaches, cyberattacks, or legal noncompliance, could result in financial loss, regulatory sanctions, or reputational harm. 30 Table of Contents Our strategic transactions, acquisitions, dispositions, and investments in companies or technologies may not result in the expected business or financial benefits, ultimately having an adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to deliver long-term value to our shareholders. As a means to implement our business strategy, we periodically evaluate and make investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services and technologies, and intellectual property rights, or dispose of assets or products, and expect to continue to do so in the future. However, there can be no assurance we can identify suitable investment, acquisition, or disposition candidates at acceptable prices. In addition, although we conduct robust due diligence through cross-functional teams when making an acquisition, each acquisition presents potential challenges and risks, including the following: – difficulties in assimilating, integrating, or retraining acquired employees. – differences between our values and those of our acquired companies, as well as disruptions to our workplace culture. – diversion of financial and managerial resources from existing operations. – challenges relating to the potential entry into new markets in which we have little experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions. – difficulties in integrating acquired operations, including challenges with the acquired company’s customers and partners. – challenges with the acquired company’s third-party service providers. – challenges with integrating the acquired companies' technology. – challenges and costs relating to known and potential unknown liabilities, technology or security vulnerabilities, or regulatory investigations associated with the acquired businesses. We have also made, and expect to continue to make, investments in companies where we do not have or obtain a controlling interest. Such investments are motivated both by their prospective financial return and the access they give us to certain new technologies, products, business ideas, and management teams. While we obtain various rights in connection with such investments, the future value of such investments is highly dependent on the management skill of the managers of those companies, among other factors. The strategic transactions we ultimately pursue may be subject to various closing conditions, including review or approval by foreign and domestic regulatory authorities and obtaining third party consents, which we may not obtain on a timely basis or at all. In addition, these strategic transactions may present financial, managerial, and operational challenges such as diversion of managerial resources from core business functions, increased expenses associated with the transaction, potential disputes with customers, suppliers, or acquirers of disposed assets, and failure to achieve the expected economic benefits of the transaction, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our ability to acquire or dispose of businesses, make strategic investments, or integrate acquisitions may be hindered by trade tensions and heightened scrutiny of foreign investments, particularly in technology. Several countries, including the United States, Europe, and Asia-Pacific, have adopted or are considering restrictions on such transactions, and antitrust authorities are reviewing technology deals with greater rigor. Our business strategy includes expanding into new and adjacent product lines, but regulatory requirements across different Morningstar businesses may limit our ability to pursue these opportunities. Regulatory sanctions in one area could affect operations in unrelated regulated sectors, and sharing intellectual property across product lines may be restricted by regulatory concerns. Future restrictions or government actions could also limit acquisition and investment opportunities and negatively impact our business and financial results. Acquisitions or divestitures may also expose us to shareholder or third-party litigation, which could be costly and distract management even if unsuccessful. The goodwill of our business and other intangible assets could be impaired in the future, requiring us to record substantial impairments that could impact future earnings. We assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when evidence of potential impairment exists. Intangible and long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment when events or changes in circumstances arise that indicate the carrying value of the asset may be unrecoverable. Some factors that may be considered include changes in our business related to acquisitions, a significant and sustained decline in stock price and market capitalization, or other changes in fair market valuations. Impairment testing is based on several factors which require judgment from management and may result in non-cash impairment charges in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 31 Table of Contents As a global taxpayer, we face challenges due to increasing complexities in accounting for taxes (e.g., base erosion, minimum taxes, and tax transparency), which are high priorities in jurisdictions in which we operate and could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate is based on the mix of income and losses in our US and non-US operations, statutory tax rates, and tax-planning opportunities available in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We have been, and could in the future be, subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new or evolving US or non-US tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates including impacts related to transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation by relevant authorities. Corporate tax reform, base-erosion efforts, and tax transparency continue to be high priorities in many jurisdictions in which we operate. Changes in tax laws or regulation around the world, including efforts led by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), could result in increases to our effective tax rate. We continue to monitor developments and administrative guidance in the countries where we operate in addition to evaluating the potential impact on our consolidated financial statements for future periods. Our revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As a business with international business activities, we are subject to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Movements in the exchange rates can impact the US dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities denominated in non-US dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. In addition, the value of assets in indexed investment products can fluctuate significantly over short periods of time and such volatility may be further impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We incur expenses for employee compensation and other operating expenses at our non-US locations in the local currency. In the future, if there is an increase or decrease in our international business activities that are recorded in local currencies, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may correspondingly increase or decrease, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. Although we may in the future decide to undertake foreign exchange hedging transactions, to date, we have not engaged in currency hedging, and we do not currently have any positions in derivative instruments to hedge our currency risk. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our cash flow and financial flexibility. Our variable rate indebtedness could subject us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. For an overview of our current outstanding indebtedness, refer to Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources below. Our long-term debt was $1,072.6 million on December 31, 2025. While our business has historically generated strong cash flow and we are in compliance with all of our debt covenants, borrowings under our current credit facilities are floating rate. As a result, our annual debt service requirements are affected by rising interest rates, and we cannot provide assurance that we will generate and maintain cash flows sufficient to permit us to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund expected capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate and access cash in the future, which, in turn, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, tax and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, ability to obtain financing, and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected. In addition, any borrowings under our current credit facilities bear interest in fluctuating interest rates based on the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), which replaced London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as the reference rate under our credit facilities. There can be no assurance that SOFR will perform in the same way as LIBOR would have at any time, which may result in increased volatility in the interest rates payable under our credit facilities and potentially increase our funding costs. 32 Table of Contents Furthermore, the terms of our debt agreements include restrictive covenants that limit, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ financial flexibility and ability to implement certain transactions. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default that, in some cases, if continuing, could result in the accelerated payment of our debt obligations or the termination of borrowing commitments on the part of the lenders under our Credit Agreement. Additionally, our current credit facilities mature in October 2028 and October 2030. We may not be able to renegotiate or obtain additional or new financing on a timely basis or on terms favorable or acceptable to us. If we are unable to refinance or otherwise fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected. Refer to Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources for a description of the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate or expensive. We maintain voluntary and required insurance coverages, including, among others, general liability, property, director and officer, technical professional liability, media liability, network cybersecurity and privacy liability, investment advisory professional liability, fidelity bond, and worker’s compensation/employers liability at a significant annual cost, which is generally expected to increase over time. While we endeavor to maintain coverage that we feel is appropriate to our operations, size, and general risk profile, certain types of claims may not be covered by this insurance. Further, we are unable to predict with certainty the frequency, nature, or magnitude of claims under our policies or our actual claims recovery experience. Our business may be negatively affected if insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable on acceptable terms or at all. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The concentrated ownership position of Joe Mansueto could adversely affect our other shareholders. As of December 31, 2025, Joe Mansueto, our Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board, owned approximately 37.5% of our outstanding common stock. While Joe has reduced his share ownership of the company in recent years as part of a personal plan to diversify his assets, his concentrated ownership position gives him substantial influence over substantially all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation, or sale of a significant portion of our assets. This concentration of ownership may disincentivize other shareholders from proposing the election of other persons to our board of directors, delay or prevent a change in control, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving Morningstar, discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the company, or result in actions that may be opposed by other shareholders. Our stock price may not reflect our assessment of intrinsic value and future sales of our common stock by our significant shareholders and fluctuations in our operating results may negatively affect our stock price. We believe our business has relatively high fixed costs, mainly for compensation and benefits, and low variable costs, making our operating results sensitive to revenue fluctuations. A decline in our revenue may lead to a proportionally larger drop in operating income. As a result of managing our business with a long-term view, we typically do not make significant adjustments to our strategy or cost structure in response to short-term changes. For example, if the US economy were to experience prolonged inflationary pressures, increased compensation and other expenses, could adversely impact our operating results. As we do not provide earnings guidance and our executive team generally doesn’t take individual meetings with investors and analysts, and given limited analyst coverage of our stock, our stock price may not now, or in the future, reflect the intrinsic value of our business and assets.For example, recent market sentiment regarding the impact of AI on software and data company growth prospects has driven meaningful sector-wide stock price declines, including Morningstar's, despite strong operating performance. Additionally, we opportunistically repurchase shares of our common stock when we believe that valuations are attractive relative to our assessment of our intrinsic value. However, the repurchases we make may not yield positive returns in the future and may not create value or increase investor confidence in our stock. If our results or metrics fall short of expectations, our stock price and trading volume may decrease. Additionally, our stock price may be susceptible to decline if our significant shareholders, including Joe Mansueto, were to sell substantial amounts of our common stock. A significant reduction in ownership by Joe or any other large shareholder over a short period of time could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. 33 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee we will pay dividends in the future or make any repurchases of our common stock under our repurchase program. We have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, but there is no guarantee that such dividends will continue in the future. Whether our Board authorizes future dividends will depend on a number of factors, including, our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law, and other factors. Moreover, our Board may determine not to repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to the share repurchase program we authorized on October 29, 2025. Refer to Note 18 of our Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our share repurchase program. Any failure to repurchase stock after we have announced our intention to do so may adversely impact our reputation and investor confidence in us and may adversely impact our stock price. The existence of our share repurchase program could cause our stock price to be higher than it otherwise would and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Repurchase programs are also subject to potential excise tax under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022.