{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":624732,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
Item 1. Business Our Company Strategy is the world's first and largest Bitcoin Treasury Company. We pursue financial innovation strategies designed to generate value from our bitcoin holdings, including by developing and issuing novel fixed-income instruments that provide investors varying degrees of economic exposure to bitcoin. In addition, we are an industry leader in AI-powered enterprise analytics software, advancing our vision of Intelligence Everywhere™. We believe our combination of active bitcoin-focused capital management and a scaled operating software business positions us for long-term value creation across both digital asset and enterprise analytics markets. On August 11, 2025, we changed our name from “MicroStrategy Incorporated” to “Strategy Inc”. Bitcoin Strategy Overview We believe that bitcoin is a financial and technological innovation and represents a compelling long-term treasury reserve asset due to its scarcity, durability, and global liquidity. Through our bitcoin treasury operations, we execute on our bitcoin acquisitions, capital management and capital markets strategies, which are designed to enable us to accumulate bitcoin in a manner we believe to be accretive to our shareholders in the long term and to generate value from our bitcoin holdings. We announced our first acquisition of bitcoin in August 2020. In September 2020, our board of directors adopted a Treasury Reserve Policy, under which our treasury reserve assets consist of: • cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments (“Cash Assets”) in excess of working capital requirements; and • bitcoin, which serves as the primary treasury reserve asset on an ongoing basis, subject to market conditions and anticipated needs of the business for Cash Assets. In the first quarter of 2021, we adopted, in addition to and in conjunction with our Treasury Reserve Policy, a corporate strategy of acquiring and holding bitcoin, including with the proceeds of capital raising transactions. Our capital markets strategy generally involves issuing Class A common stock and preferred securities through at-the-market equity offering programs (“ATMs”) when we deem advantageous. Prior to 2025, we primarily relied on proceeds from sales of class A common stock and senior convertible notes to purchase bitcoin. We also previously purchased bitcoin using cash flow from operations, and borrowings under senior secured notes and a collateralized term loan. In 2025, we structured and issued five classes of Preferred Stock (defined below) instruments, which provide differentiated indirect economic exposure to our class A common stock and bitcoin holdings, which we collectively refer to as “digital credit.” As used in this Annual Report, the term “Preferred Stock” refers to, collectively, our 10.00% Series A Perpetual Strife Preferred Stock (“STRF Stock”), Variable Rate Series A Perpetual Stretch Preferred Stock ("STRC Stock"), 10.00% Series A Perpetual Stream Preferred Stock (“STRE Stock”), 8.00% Series A Perpetual Strike Preferred Stock (“STRK Stock”) and 10.00% Series A Perpetual Stride Preferred Stock (“STRD Stock”). In December 2025, as part of our capital management strategy, we established a US dollar reserve (“USD Reserve”) to support the payment of dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our outstanding indebtedness. As of February 13, 2026, the balance of the USD Reserve was $2.25 billion. We evaluate our bitcoin strategy on an ongoing basis in light of market conditions, our capital structure, our contractual obligations, and our anticipated operating needs for cash resources. We intend for our bitcoin strategy to remain adaptable. While our bitcoin strategy today includes developing and issuing novel “digital credit” instruments, we regularly evaluate other potential financial innovation opportunities that complement our bitcoin strategy. These opportunities may include, among others, additional financing structures and strategies intended to generate income streams or otherwise generate funds using our bitcoin holdings. There can be no assurance that any such opportunities will be available on attractive terms, or at all, or that we will pursue or successfully implement any particular strategy. 7 Bitcoin Holdings We are the largest corporate holder of bitcoin globally. Our bitcoin holdings represent a core component of our balance sheet and capital structure and provide the economic backing for our equity and fixed income securities, which enables our capital markets strategy. As of February 13, 2026, we held approximately 717,131 bitcoins that were acquired at an aggregate purchase price of $54.5 billion and an average purchase price of approximately $76,027 per bitcoin, inclusive of fees and expenses. As of February 13, 2026, at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time, the market price of one bitcoin reported on the Coinbase exchange (our principal market) was $68,734. Our bitcoin holdings are managed in accordance with our Treasury Reserve Policy. We view our bitcoin holdings as long-term holdings and expect to continue to accumulate bitcoin. We have not established a specific target amount of bitcoin to hold and actively evaluate market conditions, financing opportunities, liquidity needs, and capital structure considerations on an ongoing basis. Bitcoin Operations Our bitcoin treasury operations are integral to our ability to execute on our business strategy of acquiring bitcoin in a manner we believe to be accretive to shareholders in the long term and to capitalize on opportunities to generate value from our bitcoin holdings. Our bitcoin treasury operations include: • Capital Markets Management: We evaluate bitcoin acquisitions and financing decisions under our ATMs on an ongoing basis using internal metrics and a disciplined assessment of the cost of capital, asset coverage, and market conditions. We also manage execution of underwritten offerings, including offerings of debt and newly structured preferred stock instruments. • Bitcoin Acquisition Processes: We actively monitor the trading prices of bitcoin and our securities and maintain bitcoin trade execution processes designed to achieve accretive acquisition of bitcoin in the long term. • Capital and Liability Management: We engage in active capital management, balancing maintaining leveraged exposure to bitcoin with maintaining cash liquidity sufficient to satisfy our financial obligations, including payment of dividends on our preferred stock. We also manage principal maturities on our indebtedness, dividend and interest obligations, and asset coverage across our balance sheet and portfolio of digital credit instruments. • Structuring Digital Credit: We actively and deliberately structure and issue novel digital credit instruments, which provide varying degrees of indirect economic exposure to our class A common stock and bitcoin. Our various digital credit instruments include a variety of features, including convertibility into shares of our class A common stock, varying degrees of seniority and governance rights, dividend rate adjustment, and similar features, designed to target investors across a spectrum of preferences and risk tolerances. • Digital Credit Management: We set dividend rates on our STRC Stock based on internal interest rate frameworks, market conditions and other factors. • Custody and Risk Management: We manage multiple relationships with leading bitcoin custodians, and engage in various enterprise risk management initiatives, including cybersecurity and due diligence, to manage our counterparty risk exposure. • Advocacy and Education: We periodically engage in advocacy and educational activities regarding the continued acceptance and value of Bitcoin as an open, secure protocol for an internet-native digital capital asset. Bitcoin Acquisition Strategy We actively manage our bitcoin acquisitions with a focus on execution efficiency and market impact, while maintaining sufficient liquidity. Our bitcoin acquisition strategy generally involves acquiring bitcoin using proceeds from offerings of debt or equity securities or other capital raising transactions. We may also use cash flows from operations that exceed working capital requirements to acquire bitcoin. We execute bitcoin acquisitions through trade execution partners affiliated with our bitcoin custodians. To reduce market risk, we work closely with our execution partners to execute bitcoin acquisitions close in time to our capital raising transactions. All bitcoin acquisitions are executed in accordance with our Treasury Reserve Policy and other internal policies and controls, including transaction authorization, counterparty diligence, and post-trade reconciliation to custodied balances. Capital Management Strategy 8 We actively manage our bitcoin holdings and capital structure with a focus on long-term durability, liquidity, and flexibility. Our objective is to maintain a capital structure that supports continued bitcoin accumulation, enables us to generate value from our bitcoin holdings, positions us to satisfy our financial obligations and provides resilience across market cycles. In December 2025, we established a U.S. dollar reserve (the "USD Reserve"), a management-designated portion of our liquidity intended to support the payment of dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our outstanding indebtedness. As of February 13, 2026, the balance of the USD Reserve was $2.25 billion, held in cash and cash equivalents. We may, in our sole and absolute discretion, increase, reduce, eliminate, adjust, or reallocate amounts designated as part of the USD Reserve from time to time based on market conditions, liquidity needs, risk considerations, and other factors. To optimize our cash management, we may also deploy assets designated as part of the USD Reserve into USD-denominated and/or USD-referenced assets, including instruments that do not constitute cash or cash equivalents. Our capital management strategy also contemplates that we may: • enter into additional capital raising transactions that are secured, directly or indirectly, by our assets, including bitcoin; • pursue strategies intended to generate income streams or otherwise generate funds using our bitcoin holdings; and • periodically sell bitcoin for general corporate purposes or in connection with transactions intended to generate tax, accounting, or balance-sheet benefits in accordance with applicable law, or to satisfy our financial obligations, such as payment of dividends on our preferred stock. Capital Markets Strategy We actively manage our capital markets activity with a focus on achieving accretive acquisitions of bitcoin in the long term, while managing our cost of capital, leverage, and financial obligations. We believe our bitcoin holdings enable our capital markets strategy, as they provide the substantial economic backing for our instruments, particularly our preferred stock “digital credit” instruments. Our current strategy focuses on funding our purchases of bitcoin primarily from proceeds of our offerings of our class A common stock and various preferred stock instruments pursuant to our ATM for these instruments. We have also previously used proceeds from offerings of convertible notes and senior secured notes, and a loan secured by bitcoin, to purchase bitcoin, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including for the purpose of purchasing bitcoin. We offer multiple types of securities to obtain broad access to equity and credit investors. We intentionally structure our various preferred stock instruments to appeal to investors interested in gaining economic exposure to bitcoin across a wide spectrum of yield, duration, and risk tolerance preferences. For example, we believe we have designed each of our outstanding Preferred Stock instruments to appeal to a different type of investor, as follows: • STRF Stock : income-focused investors with lower risk tolerance; • STRC Stock : income-focused investors seeking short duration; • STRE Stock : income-focused investors seeking Euro-denominated yields; • STRK Stock : investors seeking yield with greater potential for price appreciation (due to the convertibility feature of STRK Stock); and • STRD Stock : investors seeking higher yields. We regularly evaluate instrument design and issuance, and we may introduce additional instruments as markets evolve to broaden investor access and improve the efficiency and durability of our capital structure. We believe offering a range of securities, including equity and fixed income instruments, enables us to flexibly access a broad spectrum of investors, which in turn enables us to execute on our strategy of acquiring bitcoin in a manner we believe to be accretive to common stockholders on a per share basis. We also manage our USD Reserve and issuance of equity securities to manage our broader asset coverage, leverage, and liquidity needs. The type and amount of securities that we may issue and sell from time to time depend on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including market conditions and demand for our instruments, our overall level of indebtedness, and the amount and timing of interest and dividend payments that we expect to make. In evaluating our capital markets transactions, we consider numerous factors, including, but not limited to the following: 9 • Accretion to common shareholders : We consider whether the contemplated issuance and related bitcoin purchases are expected to be accretive to our shareholders over relevant horizons after considering dilution (if any), cash obligations, fees and execution costs; • Existing and potential market demand : For new issuances of preferred stock and other novel instruments, we assess investor demand and aim to structure instruments that we believe will appeal to different market segments. As noted above, we have structured each of our current Preferred Stock instruments to appeal to a different market segment, which we based in part on feedback received from market soundings and other investor communications; • Cost of capital : For instruments with dividend or interest obligations, we assess all‑in cost (cash and potential dilution). For example, we evaluate the all-in cost of offerings of preferred stock instruments to include our dividend obligations as we expect to pay those dividends with the proceeds from the issuance of additional securities and cash held in our USD Reserve; • Leverage and asset coverage : We assess the impact of our offerings on our leverage profile and capital structure. For example, our STRF Stock is our most senior preferred stock instrument, and offerings of STRF Stock increase the aggregate claims to our assets on liquidation and payments of dividends of STRF Stock above our other Preferred Stock instruments, while increasing the economic leverage of our class A common stock; • Valuation discipline : For common equity, among other factors, we calibrate issuance to valuation references with respect to our bitcoin holdings; • Market capacity : We assess demand and pacing in determining the amounts of securities to be offered in our offerings (e.g., ATM capacity relative to trading volumes, or bookbuilding indications for underwritten transactions); and • Balance sheet resilience and flexibility : We evaluate capital markets transactions against long-term liquidity and stress scenarios. We do not weigh these considerations uniformly, and not all are applicable to every offering. The applicability and weighing of these considerations may also vary across our instrument portfolio, market conditions, liquidity needs, and strategic considerations. There may also be other unforeseen considerations with respect to future offerings. In all cases, we have significant discretion in evaluating these and other considerations and executing on our capital markets strategy. Custody of Our Bitcoin Overview of Custodial Arrangements We hold substantially all of our bitcoin in custody accounts with U.S.-based custodians that have demonstrated records of regulatory compliance and information security. Our current custodians are Anchorage Digital Bank N.A. (“Anchorage”), Coinbase Custody Trust Company, LLC (“Coinbase”), and Fidelity Digital Assets, NA (f/k/a Fidelity Digital Asset Services, LLC) (“Fidelity”). The primary counterparty risk we are exposed to with respect to our bitcoin relates to these custodians’ performance of their obligations under our custody arrangements. We custody our bitcoin across multiple custodians to diversify our exposure to any single custodian. Our custodial services contracts do not restrict our ability to reallocate bitcoin among custodians, and our bitcoin holdings may be concentrated with a single custodian from time to time. Given the significant amount of bitcoin we hold, we continually evaluate and seek to engage additional digital asset custodians to further diversify custody risk. We may also, in the future, discontinue or change the use of one or more third-party custodians or utilize alternative custody arrangements, including self-custody. As of February 13, 2026, our bitcoin is held with the following custodians: Custodian Number of Bitcoin Custodied (1) Bitcoin Custodied (%) Coinbase Custody Trust Company, LLC 287,322 40 % Anchorage Digital Bank N.A. 262,194 37 % Fidelity Digital Assets, NA (f/k/a Fidelity Digital Asset Services, LLC) 167,615 23 % (1) Amounts shown are rounded to the nearest bitcoin To our knowledge, none of our third-party custodians have appointed sub-custodians to hold any of our bitcoin, and none of our custodians are related parties of the Company. Custodian Selection, Security Practices and Liability Limitations We carefully select our custodians through a due diligence process designed to assess their operational capabilities, security controls, and regulatory posture. In evaluating custodians, we consider whether they can demonstrate, among other things: 10 • robust information security programs and internal controls; • use of multifactor authentication and access controls; • secure key-management practices; and • the ability to custody private keys in offline or “cold” storage environments. Our custodial services agreements generally provide that the private keys controlling our bitcoin are held in cold storage, which is intended to mitigate risks associated with internet connectivity, including unauthorized access and cyberattacks. We also negotiate contractual liability provisions under which our custodians are held responsible for a failure by them to safekeep our bitcoin, including losses of our bitcoin to the extent such losses are directly caused by the custodian’s material breach of the custody agreement or by its gross negligence, fraud, or willful misconduct under the applicable custody agreement, and would be required to return to the Company a quantity of bitcoin equal to the quantity of any such lost bitcoin. The contracts generally exclude liability for bitcoin losses arising from blockchain protocol failures, third-party attacks not resulting from the custodian’s breach of their contract, our errors in instructions or authorizations to the custodians, or certain other events outside of the custodians’ control. Additionally, the custodians are generally not liable for indirect, consequential, incidental, or punitive damages, such as lost profits or unrealized appreciation. In addition to our custodial arrangements, we also utilize affiliates of our bitcoin custodians to execute bitcoin acquisition and disposition transactions on our behalf. We leverage the due diligence we conduct in connection with our custodial arrangements when conducting due diligence of these trade execution service providers. Ongoing Monitoring We conduct ongoing monitoring of our custodians throughout the custodial relationship, which includes: • obtaining and reviewing annual Services Organization Controls (“SOC”) reports; • exercising contractual rights to review relevant internal controls, such as through on-site audits; and • performing supplemental due diligence reviews annually or more often when warranted by market conditions or other circumstances. Insolvency and Legal Protections We negotiate specific contractual terms and conditions with our custodians that we believe will help establish, under existing law, that our property interest in the bitcoin held by our custodians is not subject to the claims of the custodian’s creditors in the event the custodian enters bankruptcy, receivership, or similar insolvency proceedings. All of our custodians are subject to regulatory regimes intended to protect customers in the event that a custodian enters bankruptcy, receivership, or similar insolvency proceedings. Anchorage and Fidelity are qualified custodians under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and chartered by the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) to custody clients’ digital assets in trust on their behalf. Coinbase is a New York State limited-purpose trust company that is licensed by the New York Department of Financial Services and provides institutional digital asset custody services. It is treated as a qualified custodian under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 for custody of digital assets, including bitcoin, and is authorized to custody digital assets in trust on behalf of clients. Based on existing law and the terms and conditions of our contractual arrangements with our custodians, we believe that the bitcoin held on our behalf by our custodians would not be considered part of a custodian’s bankruptcy estate were one or more of our custodians to enter bankruptcy, receivership, or similar insolvency proceedings. For a discussion of risks relating to the custody of our bitcoin, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and Holdings—Our bitcoin strategy exposes us to various risks, including risks associated with bitcoin,” and “—Our bitcoin strategy exposes us to risk of non-performance by counterparties.” Bitcoin Overview Bitcoin Network and Technology Bitcoin is a digital asset issued and transmitted through an open-source, decentralized protocol known as the Bitcoin protocol. Transactions are recorded on a public, distributed ledger known as the Bitcoin blockchain, which is maintained by a global peer-to-peer network of independent participants, or “nodes.” No single entity owns or controls the Bitcoin network. Bitcoin balances are controlled through cryptographic “wallets” associated with public addresses and corresponding private keys. Control of bitcoin depends solely on possession of the applicable private keys. 11 Supply, Mining, and Network Security The Bitcoin protocol limits the total supply of bitcoin to 21 million. New bitcoins are created through a process known as mining, in which network participants compete to validate transactions and add new blocks to the blockchain using computational power (“proof of work”). As of February 13, 2026, approximately 20.0 million bitcoins had been mined. Key characteristics of mining include: • Blocks are added approximately every 10 minutes; • Miners are rewarded with newly issued bitcoin and transaction fees; • The block reward is reduced by half approximately every four years (“halving”); and • The most recent halving occurred in April 2024, and the next is expected around 2028. Mining plays a critical role in securing the Bitcoin network but is resource-intensive and competitive. Modifications to the Bitcoin Protocol Bitcoin is an open-source network that has no central authority, so no one person can unilaterally make changes to the software that runs the network. However, there is a core group of developers that maintains the code for the Bitcoin protocol, and they can propose changes to the source code and release periodic updates and other changes. Unlike most software that has a central entity that can push updates to users, bitcoin is a peer-to-peer network in which individual network participants, called nodes, decide whether to upgrade the software and accept the new changes. As a practical matter, a modification becomes part of the Bitcoin protocol only if the proposed changes are accepted by participants collectively having more than 50% of the processing power, known as hash rate, on the network. If a certain percentage of the nodes reject the changes, then a “fork” takes place, and participants can choose the version of the software they want to run. Bitcoin Opportunity Bitcoin as Financial Innovation We believe bitcoin represents a financial innovation that can function as “digital capital.” Unlike traditional monetary assets that are issued by sovereigns or financial institutions and may be subject to discretionary monetary policy, bitcoin is enabled by an open-source protocol that provides for intermediary-less custody and transfer, and a fixed maximum supply of 21 million bitcoins. Bitcoin consistently ranks among the most liquid traded assets globally, with substantial daily trading volume across spot and derivatives markets. We believe these characteristics differentiate bitcoin from many conventional financial assets and support its potential use as a long-duration treasury reserve asset and store of value. We also believe that, as bitcoin becomes more broadly recognized as digital capital, the continued maturation of market infrastructure (e.g., custody, institutional trading, and regulated products) and broader adoption by individuals, institutions, and governments could support long-term demand for bitcoin and, as a result, potential value appreciation over time. For example, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") approved the first U.S. spot bitcoin exchange-traded products ("ETPs") in January 2024, expanding access through regulated investment vehicles. As of December 31, 2025, U.S. spot bitcoin ETPs have accumulated over 1.3 million bitcoins (approximately 6% of total supply) since approval, evidencing increasing participation through regulated products. In addition, institutional derivatives markets for bitcoin are active on regulated venues, which we view as further evidence of maturing market infrastructure. Our strategy of acquiring bitcoin with proceeds from equity and debt capital market transactions and maintaining a leveraged position on our bitcoin holdings is designed to position us to benefit from the broader adoption of bitcoin as digital capital. Bitcoin as Technological Innovation We believe bitcoin also represents a technological innovation. Bitcoin operates on a decentralized network designed to function without a central issuer or control by any single government or central bank. Transactions are recorded on a public, distributed ledger that is maintained by a global network of independent participants. We believe that continued development of the broader bitcoin ecosystem and technologies intended to enable additional functionality (such as second-layer technologies like the Lightning Network) may expand potential use cases over time. These developments could further support the long-term adoption and utility of bitcoin and may create opportunities for additional technological and financial innovation, although the pace, direction, and commercial impact of such developments are uncertain. Potential Advantages and Disadvantages of Holding Bitcoin We believe bitcoin has certain characteristics that make it an attractive asset and store of value, including: • Bitcoin is supported by a robust and public open-source architecture, that is untethered to sovereign monetary policy. 12 • The Bitcoin protocol caps total supply at 21 million bitcoins, which we believe supports its ability to function as a long-term store of value and, over time, can drive value appreciation. • Bitcoin transactions are validated and recorded on a public, distributed ledger maintained by a globally distributed network of nodes and miners, which reduces reliance on any single system or intermediary and makes certain network-level attacks, such as “51% attacks,” difficult and costly to execute. At the same time, holding bitcoin involves risks and limitations, including: • Access to bitcoin depends on control of cryptographic private keys, which may be lost, destroyed, or compromised through phishing, malware, insider misconduct, or other security breaches. Loss or compromise of private keys can result in the permanent loss of access to the associated bitcoin. • Bitcoin holdings are subject to risks inherent in digital systems and electronic data, including cyberattacks, power failures, data corruption, software vulnerabilities, communication disruptions, and human error. These risks may make bitcoin more susceptible to theft, destruction, or loss of value than traditional fiat currencies or conventional financial assets. • The Bitcoin network relies on open-source developers to maintain and improve the Bitcoin protocol, which may give rise to protocol design limitations, disagreements among developers or network participants, competing or “forked” protocols, and other open source-specific risks that do not affect conventional proprietary software. For additional discussion of risks related to bitcoin and our bitcoin holdings see “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and Holdings.” Other Digital Assets While bitcoin remains the largest digital asset by market capitalization as of the date of this Annual Report, numerous other digital assets exist and continue to develop rapidly. These alternative digital assets include: • Blockchain networks that use consensus mechanisms other than proof-of-work, which many entities, including consortia and financial institutions, are actively developing and investing in. For example, the Ethereum network transitioned to a proof-of-stake protocol in 2022, which requires significantly less computational power than proof-of-work mining. • Stablecoins, which are digital assets designed to maintain a relatively constant value because issuers hold high-quality liquid assets (such as U.S. dollar deposits or short-term U.S. Treasury securities) equal to the value of coins in circulation. Stablecoins have grown as an alternative to bitcoin for payments and trading, particularly on digital asset platforms. As of December 31, 2025, several of the largest digital assets by market capitalization were U.S. dollar-backed stablecoins. • Digital forms of legal tender introduced or piloted by governments. For example, China’s central bank digital currency ("CBDC") was made available to consumers in 2022, and the United States, European Union, and other countries are exploring or piloting similar initiatives. The emergence or growth of these and other digital assets, particularly those with substantial private or public sector support, could negatively impact the price of bitcoin and affect our business. For a discussion of risks relating to the emergence of other digital assets, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Risks Related to Our Bitcoin Strategy and Holdings—The emergence or growth of other digital assets, including those with significant private or public sector backing, could have a negative impact on the price of bitcoin and adversely affect our business.” Competition Our bitcoin strategy generally involves from time to time, subject to market conditions, acquiring bitcoin using proceeds from offerings of debt or equity securities or other capital raising transactions. When we engage in such capital raising transactions, we compete for capital with, among others, ETPs, bitcoin miners, digital assets exchanges, other digital assets service providers, other companies that hold bitcoin or other digital assets as treasury reserve assets, private funds that invest in bitcoin and other digital assets, traditional financial firms that have entered the digital assets market, and other entities that pursue strategies to accumulate or gain exposure to bitcoin or other digital assets. An increase in the competition for sources of capital could adversely affect the availability and cost of financing for our bitcoin purchases, and thereby could adversely affect the market price of our listed securities. Government Regulation 13 We are not registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and stockholders do not have the protections associated with ownership of shares in a registered investment company, nor the protections afforded by the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936. The laws and regulations applicable to bitcoin and digital assets are evolving and subject to interpretation and change. Governments around the world have reacted differently to digital assets; certain governments have deemed them illegal, and others have allowed their use and trade without restriction, while in some jurisdictions, such as the U.S., digital assets are subject to overlapping, uncertain and evolving regulatory requirements. As digital assets have grown in both popularity and market size, the U.S. Executive Branch, Congress and a number of U.S. federal and state agencies, including the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and state financial regulators, have been examining the operations of digital asset networks, digital asset users and digital asset exchanges, with particular focus on the extent to which digital assets can be used to violate state or federal laws, including to facilitate the laundering of proceeds of illegal activities or the funding of criminal or terrorist enterprises, and the safety and soundness and consumer-protective safeguards of exchanges or other service-providers that hold, transfer, trade or exchange digital assets for users. Many of these state and federal agencies have issued consumer advisories regarding the risks posed by digital assets to investors. In addition, federal and state agencies, and other countries have issued rules or guidance regarding the treatment of digital asset transactions and requirements for businesses engaged in activities related to digital assets. Depending on the regulatory characterization of bitcoin, the markets for bitcoin in general, and our activities in particular, our business and our bitcoin strategy may be subject to regulation by one or more regulators in the United States and globally. Ongoing and future regulatory actions may alter, to a materially adverse extent, the nature of digital assets markets, the participation of industry participants, including service providers and financial institutions in these markets, and our ability to pursue our bitcoin strategy. Additionally, U.S. state and federal and foreign regulators and legislatures have taken action against industry participants, including digital assets businesses, and enacted restrictive regimes in response to adverse publicity arising from hacks, consumer harm, or criminal activity stemming from digital assets activity. U.S. federal and state energy regulatory authorities are also monitoring the total electricity consumption of cryptocurrency mining, and the potential impacts of cryptocurrency mining to the supply and dispatch functionality of the wholesale grid and retail distribution systems. Many state legislative bodies have passed, or are actively considering, legislation to address the impact of cryptocurrency mining in their respective states. The CFTC takes the position that Bitcoin, as well as some other digital assets, fall within the definition of a “commodity” under the Commodity Exchange Act (the “CEA”). Under the CEA, the CFTC has broad enforcement authority to police market manipulation and fraud in spot digital assets markets in which we may transact. Beyond instances of fraud or manipulation, the CFTC generally does not oversee cash or spot market exchanges or transactions involving digital asset commodities that do not utilize margin, leverage, or financing. In addition, CFTC regulations and CFTC oversight and enforcement authority apply with respect to futures, swaps, other derivative products and certain retail leveraged commodity transactions involving digital asset commodities, including the markets on which these products trade. The SEC and its staff have taken the position that certain other digital assets, including certain spot crypto assets, fall within the definition of a “security” under the U.S. federal securities laws. Public statements made by senior officials and senior members of the staff at the SEC indicate that the SEC does not consider bitcoin to be a security under the federal securities laws. However, such statements are not official policy statements by the SEC and reflect only the speakers’ views, which are not binding on the SEC or any other agency or court and cannot be generalized to any other digital assets. In addition, since transactions in bitcoin provide a degree of anonymity, they are susceptible to misuse for criminal activities, such as money laundering. This misuse, or the perception of such misuse, could lead to greater regulatory oversight of bitcoin and Bitcoin platforms, and there is the possibility that law enforcement agencies could close or blacklist bitcoin platforms or other bitcoin-related infrastructure with little or no notice and prevent users from accessing or retrieving bitcoin held via such platforms or infrastructure. For example, the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control has issued updated advisories regarding the use of virtual currencies, added a number of digital asset exchanges and service providers to the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons list and engaged in several enforcement actions, including a series of enforcement actions that have either shut down or significantly curtailed the operations of several smaller digital asset exchanges associated with Russian and/or North Korean nationals. As noted above, activities involving bitcoin and other digital assets may fall within the jurisdiction of more than one financial regulator and various courts and such laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and increasing in scope. On January 23, 2025, President Trump issued an executive order titled, Strengthening American Leadership in Digital Financial Technology. While the executive order did not mandate the adoption of any specific regulations, the executive 14 order identifies certain key objectives to guide agencies involved in crypto regulation, including (i) protecting the sovereignty of the United States dollar by promoting the development of United States dollar-backed stablecoins, (ii) providing regulatory clarity and certainty built on technology-neutral regulations for individuals and firms involved in digital assets, including through well-defined jurisdictional regulatory boundaries, and (iii) taking measures to protect Americans from the risks of Central Bank Digital Currencies. To achieve these objectives, the executive order established a working group on digital asset markets within the National Economic Council, comprised of representatives from key federal agencies, with a tight timeline for examining existing regulations and proposing a new regulatory framework. This working group released a report on July 30, 2025 that recommended regulatory and legislative proposals to advance the policies established in the executive order. The SEC also established a Crypto Task Force in furtherance of these objectives. Among other things, the Crypto Task Force is charged with helping to draw clear regulatory lines and to appropriately distinguish securities from non-securities. The work of the Crypto Task Force is in its early stages and it is not yet clear whether it will result in material changes to the existing regulatory framework of digital assets. In addition, Congress has considered legislation to establish additional regulation and oversight of the digital asset markets. The GENIUS Act (Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for US Stablecoins Act), which regulates payment stablecoins, was signed into law in July 2025. The Digital Asset Market Clarity Act of 2025 (H.R. 3633), which establishes a framework for digital assets, passed the U.S. House of Representatives in July 2025. This bill distinguishes between digital commodities and digital securities, and provides the CFTC with jurisdiction to oversee digital commodities, exchanges and brokers. As of January 2026, the U.S. Senate is considering its own legislation to establish a framework for digital asset markets. Enterprise Analytics Software Strategy Strategy is a pioneer in AI-powered solutions delivering a comprehensive portfolio of software and services that addresses a wide spectrum of enterprise data challenges. We provide solutions designed to transform complex, fragmented data environments into unified, reliable ecosystems that drive insight and action across organizations worldwide. Our vision is to drive growth and competitive advantage for our customers by delivering Intelligence Everywhere™. Strategy One™, our cloud-native analytics platform, is used by enterprises across a wide range of industries to deliver business intelligence and analytics solutions. It delivers visualization, reporting, and embedded analytics capabilities across retail, banking, technology, manufacturing, insurance, consulting, healthcare, telecommunications, and the public sector. Complementing this, Strategy Mosaic™ is a universal data layer that enables organizations to achieve a single source of truth across their data. It provides enterprises with consistent definitions and governance across data sources, regardless of where that data resides or which tools access it. AI-powered data modeling hastens data product creation, while Mosaic’s intelligent architecture promotes accelerated performance for all workloads. Integral to the Strategy portfolio are generative AI capabilities that are designed to automate and accelerate the deployment of AI-enabled applications across the enterprise. By making advanced analytics accessible through conversational AI, we provide non-technical users with timely, actionable insights for decision-making. The Strategy One Platform Strategy One is an AI-powered business intelligence platform that helps organizations build, explore, and act on data. It combines interactive dashboards, enterprise reports, AI agents, and embedded analytics into a single, unified platform. Designed for enterprise scale, Strategy One supports medium to large enterprise deployments and delivers real-time insights across web, mobile, and custom applications. Key Capabilities and Competitive Differentiators: Our key capabilities and competitive differentiators include the following: 1. Built for the cloud. Our cloud-native, containerized architecture has been optimized for all three hyperscalers – AWS, Azure, and GCP – giving our customers freedom of choice and making it easy to embed analytics into custom or third-party cloud and mobile applications. 2. Auto, the AI assistant. Our AI bot, Auto, simplifies and automates complex functions using a natural language interface, including SQL generation, dashboard creation, data discovery and advanced analytics like forecasting and key driver analysis. Auto is designed to make analytics accessible to non-technical users and extend data-driven decision making across the organization. With Auto, customers also can build their own fully customized bot for any application in a matter of minutes. 3. HyperIntelligence ™ . This innovative feature presents context-based, click-free insights to the user by hovering over keywords on the screen. It can be implemented on mobile, web, or custom applications to enrich understanding and streamline workflows. 15 4. Our Enterprise Semantic Graph™ is a powerful metadata layer that helps ensure data insights are trustworthy regardless of how far-reaching the applications and users of data may reside. 5. Flexible deployment. Customers can choose to deploy our platform on premises (pending end-of-support for on premises software), or through our cloud environments for commercial or government use. 6. Open and interoperable. Developers can leverage scripts, APIs, and over 100 connectors (local and cloud) to embed the platform or build predictive, machine learning-enhanced data models on top of a secure and trusted foundation. FedRAMP Authorization Strategy’s cloud solution for government is authorized to operate under the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (“FedRAMP”) guidelines, which certifies compliance with essential cloud security and data protection standards set by the U.S. Federal government. The solution offers always-on threat monitoring that meets the rigorous technical and regulatory needs of governments and financial institutions worldwide. Strategy’s government cloud solution achieved this designation through collaboration with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Strategy Professional Services™ Strategy Support Our global network of Strategy-certified technical support experts helps customers maintain system availability and resolve issues quickly. Standard support is included with every subscription, with premium options available for extended coverage and additional service. Strategy Consulting and Education Strategy Professional Services™ also supports customers through consulting and education offerings. Strategy consultants help design and implement AI-powered analytics solutions tailored to customers’ business intelligence needs. In addition, our education team offers a broad range of free and paid training programs, delivered worldwide in multiple languages and formats, to help teams adopt and effectively use Strategy solutions. Sales and Marketing Licensing Models We offer our analytics platform in the form of an on-premises product license or a cloud subscription; however, as of January 2025, Strategy on-premises product licenses have entered an end-of-support cycle, with full support for such licenses ending December 31, 2026. Subscriptions for cloud-based deployments typically are for 36 months and include standard support. Premium support services are available for added fees. Dedicated Sales and Customer Success Teams Strategy sells its offerings chiefly through a direct sales force, with sales offices throughout the world. We also support customers post-sale through a dedicated Customer Success team that manages the customer lifecycle, from onboarding and training through license renewal and expansion. This separation allows our Sales team to focus on new business development and acquisition, while our Customer Success team focuses on customer experience, satisfaction, and lifetime value. Strategic Partnerships Strategy has established strategic partnerships with a wide variety of third-party vendors, including cloud hosting providers (AWS, Microsoft, STACKIT, and Google), system integrators, consulting firms, value added resellers ("VARs"), managed service providers ("MSPs"), and independent software vendors ("ISVs"). These firms resell, support, or extend the Strategy platform for a variety of commercial purposes, and our agreements with them generally provide non-exclusive rights to our software, marketing materials, product training, and direct sales force for field-level assistance. We make significant financial investments with our channel partners, including technical training, certifications, pre-sales and sales enablement, and co-marketing programs. Through our joint efforts, we believe customers can minimize their risk and maximize the return on their business intelligence projects. Our channel partners allow us to extend sales and service coverage and industry-specific expertise across regions, languages, and business types. Marketing Strategy’s marketing programs target the following principal audiences: • technology and line-of-business executives across large, global enterprises and mid-size organizations; 16 • government technology buyers and vendors to the government community; • ISVs that want to embed analytics technology in their applications; and • system integrators that have technology relationships with large enterprises, governments, and information-intensive businesses. The channels we use to reach prospective buyers and partners include digital and social media, search and display advertising, industry and hosted events, webinars, email, partner co-marketing activities, and educational forums. Competition The AI and analytics markets are highly competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology and market conditions. For enterprise analytics, Strategy competes with global ISVs, such as IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, Salesforce, and SAP. Our ability to compete successfully depends on various factors within and outside of our control. Some of these factors include software quality, performance and reliability; the quality of our service and support teams; marketing and prospecting effectiveness; the ability to incorporate artificial intelligence and other technically advanced features; and our ability to differentiate our products. Failure to perform in these or other areas may reduce the demand for our offerings and materially adversely affect our revenue from both existing and prospective customers. Government Regulation Aspects of our business involve collecting, processing, disclosing, storing, and transmitting personal data, which are subject to certain privacy policies, contractual obligations, and U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, and directives relating to privacy and data protection. There are a broad variety of data protection laws in the United States that are or may be applicable to our activities, and a wide range of enforcement agencies at both the state and federal levels that can review companies for privacy and data security concerns based on general consumer protection laws. The Federal Trade Commission and state Attorneys General all are aggressive in reviewing privacy and data security protections for consumers. New laws also are being considered at both the state and federal levels. A broad range of legislative measures also have been introduced at the federal level. Accordingly, failure to comply with federal and state laws (both those currently in effect and future legislation) regarding privacy and security of personal information could expose us to fines and penalties under such laws. In the event of a security breach, we also may have obligations to notify our customers or other parties or individuals about this breach, and this can lead to significant costs and the risk of potential enforcement and/or litigation. There is also a threat of consumer class actions related to these laws and the overall protection of personal data. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our reputation and our business. There are similar laws in other countries, including the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) in the European Union which imposes requirements regarding the handling and security of personal data, requires disclosure of data breaches to individuals, customers, and data protection authorities in certain circumstances, requires companies to honor data subjects’ requests relating to their personal data, permits regulators to impose fines of up to €20,000,000 or 4% of global annual revenue, whichever is higher, and establishes a private right of action. In addition to these specific laws, we also are subject to other privacy, security, and data protection laws around the world. In addition to the laws in place already, other countries are also considering new or expanded laws governing privacy and data security that may impact our business practices. These laws may impact our ongoing business activities and our relationships with our business partners, customers and service providers. Furthermore, the U.S. Congress is considering comprehensive privacy legislation. At this time, it is unclear whether Congress will pass such a law and if so, when and what it will require and prohibit. Moreover, it is not clear whether any such legislation would give the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) any new authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the Federal Trade Commission Act in the first instance, whether Congress will grant the FTC rulemaking authority over privacy and information security, or whether Congress will vest some or all privacy and data security regulatory authority and enforcement power in a new agency, akin to EU data protection authorities. Employees As of December 31, 2025, we had a total of 1,539 employees, of whom 448 were based in the United States and 1,091 were based internationally. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union; however, employees of certain of our foreign subsidiaries are members of trade or local unions. For example, in France, our employees are represented by a works council as required by local law. We have not experienced any work stoppages and generally consider our relations with our employees to be good. 17 We recognize and value the contribution of all our employees. Their dedication, hard work, loyalty, and commitment is critical to our success as a company. Our philosophy is to create an agile, evolving environment that allows all of our employees to grow and thrive, with initiatives and platforms that reward and recognize employees for their hard work and commitment to delivering personal excellence and creativity at Strategy. Our human capital management objectives are to attract, retain, and develop leading talent to deliver on our business strategies. To accomplish these objectives, we constantly strive to understand the drivers of talent attraction, retention, and sustainable engagement with our employees in each of the geographies in which we operate. As part of this process, we regularly benchmark the benefits we offer our employees against those offered within our industry generally and the local markets in which we operate. During 2025, we continued to offer our equity compensation programs worldwide to provide our employees with greater opportunities to share in any appreciation of our class A common stock. In addition, we pride ourselves on preparing a highly skilled workforce through technical boot camps, regular training workshops, and a variety of other learning experiences. Our initiative-driven teams work with a modern technology stack, and they meet and learn from some of the most experienced innovators in their field. Through these efforts we seek to create an environment in which our employees can flourish, respond quickly to client demand and enhance their connections with colleagues and towards the communities they are a part of globally. Available Information Our website is located at www.strategy.com . We make available free of charge, on or through the Investor Relations section of our website ( www.strategy.com/investor-relations) , our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such reports with the SEC. Information found on our website is not part of this Annual Report or any other report filed with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file or furnish electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . We also maintain a dashboard on our website ( www.strategy.com ) as a disclosure channel for providing broad, non-exclusionary distribution of information regarding the Company to the public, including information regarding market prices of our outstanding securities, bitcoin purchases and holdings, certain KPI metrics and other supplemental information, and as one means of disclosing non-public information in compliance with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Investors and others are encouraged to regularly review the information that we make public via the website dashboard. 18 Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impact us, our business, our bitcoin holdings, or our securities. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the market price of our class A common stock and our Preferred Stock, which we refer to collectively as our “listed securities,” could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. On August 7, 2024, we completed a 10-for-1 stock split of our class A and class B common stock. See Note 2(a), Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Basis of Presentation, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for further information. As a result of the stock split, all applicable share and per share information presented within this Item 1A. Risk Factors has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split for all periods presented. Risks Related to Our Business in General Our operating results, revenues, and expenses may fluctuate significantly, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our listed securities For many reasons, including those described below, our operating results, revenues, and expenses have varied in the past and may vary significantly in the future from quarter to quarter and year to year. As a result, comparisons of our operating results from one period to the next are not a good indication of our future performance. These fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our listed securities. Fluctuations in Operating Results. Our operating results may fluctuate, in part, as a result of: • fluctuations in the price of bitcoin, of which we have significant holdings and with respect to which we expect to continue to make significant future purchases, and potential related fair value changes; • any sales by us of our bitcoin at prices above or below their carrying value, which would result in our recording gains or losses upon sale of our bitcoin; • the incurrence of tax liabilities with respect to our bitcoin; • regulatory, commercial, and technical developments related to bitcoin or the Bitcoin blockchain, or digital assets more generally; • the incurrence of additional dividend obligations on our outstanding Preferred Stock or newly issued preferred stock or fixed interest charges on outstanding or additional indebtedness; • the impact of war, terrorism, infectious diseases, natural disasters and other global events, and governmental responses to such events, on the global economy and the market for and price of bitcoin; • significant changes to our software business, including significant changes in our software sales or operating expenses, or the timing of announcements of new offerings or research and development projects by us or our competitors; and • our profitability and expectations for future profitability and their effect on our deferred tax balances and net income for the period in which any adjustment to our net deferred tax asset valuation allowance may be made, as well as increases or decreases in our unrecognized tax benefits. Limited Ability to Adjust Expenses. We base our operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends and our strategic objectives. Many of our expenses, such as dividend obligations on our outstanding Preferred Stock, interest expense on our debt, tax liabilities, office leases and certain personnel costs, are relatively fixed in the short term. We do not expect the cash generated by our software operations to be sufficient to cover such expenses, and we expect to use cash proceeds from sales of our class A common stock under our ATM, cash we hold in the USD Reserve and cash proceeds from additional equity or debt financings (including, but not limited to, ATMs of our STRC Stock, STRK Stock, or STRD Stock, as applicable) to pay our expenses and satisfy our liquidity needs that are in excess of our operating cash flows. If we deplete our USD Reserve and are unable to secure equity or debt financing in a timely manner, on favorable terms, or at all, we may be required to sell bitcoin to satisfy our financial obligations. Such actions could cause significant variation in our operating results in any quarter. Based on the above factors, we believe quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. For example, during consecutive quarters in 2025 we experienced a quarter with gains on digital assets followed by a quarter with losses on digital assets, and vice versa. The price of bitcoin and our 19 results have fluctuated similarly during other periods, and we expect they will continue to fluctuate significantly in future periods. Additionally, for the reasons described above, it is possible that in one or more future quarters or years, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our listed securities may decline. We may not be able to regain profitability in future periods As of January 1, 2025, we have adopted ASU 2023-08, pursuant to which we are required to recognize increases or decreases in fair value of our digital assets as incurred in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Our unrealized loss on digital assets for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2025 was $5.40 billion, partially offset by $1.55 billion in deferred tax benefit. We may not be able to regain profitability in future periods, particularly if we incur significant unrealized losses related to our digital assets, which will depend on the price of bitcoin at the end of the applicable period. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, unrealized gains on digital assets do not generate cash. For example, we reported significant unrealized gains on digital assets during the six-month period ended June 30, 2025; however, we experienced negative cash flow for that period, and we may continue to experience significant negative cash flow notwithstanding future unrealized gains on digital assets unless we sell our bitcoin or otherwise generate cash from our bitcoin holdings. As of December 31, 2025, we had deferred tax liabilities with respect to the unrealized gain on our bitcoin holdings of approximately $2.42 billion. Our deferred tax liabilities were partially offset by deferred tax assets, such as net operating losses and capitalized research and development costs. As of December 31, 2025, the cost basis of the bitcoin we held was less than its fair market value. However as of the date of this report, the cost basis of the bitcoin we hold exceeds its fair market value. If the fair market value of bitcoin declines as of the end of any future period from the end of the prior period, our deferred tax liability with respect to unrealized gains, if any, on our bitcoin holdings will decrease and we may be required to establish additional valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. If the fair market value of bitcoin declines to the point where the cost basis of the bitcoin we hold exceeds its fair market value as of the end of any future period, the deferred tax liability with respect to the unrealized gains would be reversed and a deferred tax asset for the unrealized loss would be recorded and we would be required to establish a valuation allowance against all of our US federal and state deferred tax assets. Such increases in valuation allowances could materially and adversely affect net income in periods in which such charges are incurred. A significant decrease in the fair market value of our bitcoin holdings could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations or liquidity needs For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2025, our enterprise analytics software business did not generate positive cash flow from operations, and we do not expect our enterprise analytics software business to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our financial obligations or liquidity needs over the next twelve months. As of December 31, 2025, our outstanding indebtedness was $8.25 billion, and our annual contractual interest expense was $36.2 million. Additionally, as of February 13, 2026, we had outstanding $8.47 billion aggregate notional value of Preferred Stock. Our outstanding Preferred Stock accrues dividends payable, as and if declared by our board of directors, out of funds legally available for their payment: in the case of STRF Stock, STRE Stock and STRK Stock, quarterly in arrears on a cumulative basis; in the case of STRD Stock, quarterly in arrears on a non-cumulative basis; and in the case of STRC Stock, monthly in arrears on a cumulative basis. See the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section under