{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":418937,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
Item 1. Business Oracle provides products and services that build, run and support enterprise information technology (IT) frameworks. Our products and services include enterprise applications and infrastructure offerings that incorporate and are enhanced by artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, including embedded AI-driven automation and analytics and generative AI capabilities. These offerings are delivered worldwide through a variety of flexible and interoperable IT deployment models. These models include cloud-based, on-premise and hybrid deployments, such as Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer and multicloud options that enable customers to use Oracle cloud offerings in conjunction with other public clouds. We provide choice and flexibility to our customers as to when and how they deploy Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. We believe that offering customers broad, comprehensive, flexible and interoperable deployment models for Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies is important to our growth strategy, an important element of our corporate strategy and better addresses customer needs relative to our competitors. Oracle cloud offerings include Oracle Cloud Applications (OCA) and Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI, and collectively with OCA, Oracle Cloud), which provide comprehensive and integrated applications and infrastructure services, enabling our customers to choose the best option that meets their specific business needs. Oracle Cloud integrates IT components in a cloud-based IT environment that Oracle deploys and manages for customers and is accessible by utilizing common web browsers via a broad spectrum of devices. AI technologies embedded in Oracle Cloud offerings are designed to support the improvement of our customers’ existing and new workflows and business processes, including automation and data analyses. Oracle Cloud is designed to be: • rapidly deployable to enable customers shorter time to innovation; • intuitive for both casual and experienced users; • easily maintainable to reduce upgrade, integration and testing work; • connectable among differing deployment models to enable interoperability and extensibility to easily move workloads among the Oracle Cloud, multicloud and other IT environments; • cost-effective by lowering upfront customer investments and implementing usage-based resource consumption costs; and • highly performant and secure, standards-based and reliable. Oracle software offerings include Oracle Applications, Oracle AI Database and Oracle Middleware software license offerings, among others, which customers deploy using IT infrastructure from the Oracle Cloud or their own IT environments. Substantially all customers opt to purchase software support contracts when they purchase an Oracle software license. 1 Table of Contents Oracle hardware products include Oracle Engineered Systems, servers, storage and industry-specific products, among others. Customers generally opt to purchase hardware support contracts when they purchase Oracle hardware products. Oracle also offers professional services to assist our customers and partners to maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle products and services. Our global customer base includes businesses of various sizes and industries, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers that we market and sell to directly through our worldwide sales force or indirectly through the Oracle Partner Network. Using Oracle technologies, our customers build, deploy, run, manage and support their products and services and critical business operations. We feature a wide range of customer success stories using Oracle technologies to modernize and transform their businesses at www.oracle.com/customers. Our investments in and innovation with respect to Oracle products and services that we offer through our three businesses (cloud and software, hardware and services businesses, described further below) are another important element of our corporate strategy. In fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024, we invested $10.3 billion, $9.9 billion and $8.9 billion, respectively, in research and development to enhance our existing portfolio of offerings and to develop new technologies and services. We have a deep understanding of how applications and infrastructure technologies interact and function with one another, including using OCI to power our OCA, which we and our customers use to run internal business processes. We focus our development efforts on improving the performance, security, reliability, operation, integration and cost-effectiveness of our offerings relative to our competitors; facilitating the ease with which organizations are able to deploy, use, manage and maintain our offerings; and incorporating emerging technologies, such as AI, within our offerings to enable leaner business processes, automation and innovation. After an initial purchase of Oracle products and services, our customers can continue to benefit from our offerings, research and development efforts and deep IT expertise by electing to purchase and renew Oracle support offerings for their software and hardware deployments, which may include unspecified product upgrades and enhancements that we periodically deliver to our products, and by renewing their Oracle Cloud contracts with us. We have three businesses: cloud and software (formerly referred to as cloud and license); hardware; and services. Each business is comprised of a single operating segment. Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, both included elsewhere in this Annual Report, provide additional information related to our businesses and operating segments. Oracle Applications and Infrastructure Technologies Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies, including database and middleware software as well as enterprise applications, virtualization, clustering, large-scale systems management and related infrastructure products and services, are based upon industry standards and are designed to be enterprise-grade, reliable, scalable and secure. These technologies are the building blocks of Oracle Cloud, our partners’ cloud services and our customers’ cloud IT environments. Oracle applications and infrastructure offerings are marketed and sold through our cloud and software and hardware businesses, and are delivered through the Oracle Cloud or other IT deployment models chosen by our customers. We believe that our Oracle Cloud offerings, which have built-in AI capabilities, represent opportunities for us to continue to expand our business. We believe that our customers increasingly recognize the value of access to the latest versions of Oracle cloud-based applications and infrastructure capabilities via a cost-effective, rapidly deployable, flexible and interoperable services model that Oracle provisions, manages, upgrades and maintains on our customers’ behalf. We believe that we can market and sell our Oracle Cloud offerings together to help new and existing customers migrate their extensive installed base of on-premise and cloud-based applications and infrastructure technologies to the Oracle Cloud and we believe we are in the early stages of what we expect will be a material migration of our existing Oracle customer base from on-premise applications and infrastructure products and services to the Oracle Cloud. The proportion of our cloud revenues relative to our total revenues has increased, and our cloud revenues represented 51%, 43% and 37% of our total revenues during fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We expect these trends to continue. During the past three fiscal years, customers with annual software 2 Table of Contents support contracts that migrated to the Oracle Cloud contributed to the increase in annualized cloud revenue by $5.4 billion. In addition, we also believe we can market our Oracle Cloud offerings to a broader ecosystem of small and medium-sized businesses, non-IT lines of business purchasers, developers and partners due to the highly performant and available, intuitive design, ease-of-access, low touch and cost-effective characteristics of the Oracle Cloud. In recent periods, customer demand for our applications and infrastructure technologies delivered through our Oracle Cloud deployment models has increased. To address customer demand and enable customer choice, we have introduced certain programs for customers to pivot their applications and infrastructure software licenses and software support contracts to the Oracle Cloud for new deployments and to migrate to and expand with the Oracle Cloud for their existing workloads. Customers, partners and other interested parties may elect to subscribe to Oracle applications and infrastructure training and certification programs through learning subscriptions offered by Oracle University. Learners generally have unlimited access to course content delivered during the subscription period. Oracle Applications Technologies Oracle applications technologies are marketed, sold, delivered and supported through our cloud and software business. Oracle applications offerings include our OCA offerings, which are available for customers as a subscription, and Oracle applications software license offerings, which are available for customers to purchase for use within the Oracle Cloud and other cloud-based and on-premise IT environments, and include the option to purchase related software support. Our applications technologies are designed to reduce the risk, cost and complexity of our customers’ IT infrastructures, while supporting customer choice with flexible deployment models that readily enable performance, agility, compatibility and extendibility. The applications technologies that we offer are generally designed using industry standard architectures to manage and automate core business functions across the enterprise and a broad range of industries, as well as to help customers differentiate and innovate in those processes unique to their industries or organizations. We also offer industry-specific applications, which provide solutions to customers in the automotive, communications, construction and engineering, consumer packaged goods, defense and intelligence, education, financial services, government, healthcare, high technology, hospitality, industrial manufacturing, life sciences, media and entertainment, oil and gas, professional services, public safety, restaurant, retail, travel and logistics, utilities and wholesale distribution industries, among others. Oracle Cloud Applications (OCA) The broad spectrum of OCA offerings provides customers with a choice of software applications delivered via a cloud-based IT environment that we deploy and manage and that customers purchase by entering into a subscription agreement with us for a stated period. Our OCA offerings represent an industry-leading business innovation platform leveraging OCI and include a broad suite of modular, next-generation cloud software applications spanning all core business functions. Our OCA offerings include: • Oracle Fusion Cloud Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), which includes Oracle Fusion Cloud Enterprise Performance Management (EPM) and Oracle Fusion Cloud Supply Chain and Manufacturing Management (SCM), is designed to provide complete financial, project and risk management solutions to help organizations manage finance and accounting functions, to optimize back-office operations by utilizing a single data and security model with a common user interface and to optimize and digitize their supply chains and manufacturing operations; • Oracle Fusion Cloud Human Capital Management (HCM), which is designed to help organizations find, develop and retain their talent, enable collaboration, provide workforce insights, improve business process efficiency and enable users to connect to an integrated suite of HCM applications from a broad range of devices; • Oracle Fusion Cloud Customer Experience (CX), which is designed to allow organizations to deliver consistent and personalized customer experiences across their customer channels, touch points and interactions through sales, service and marketing modules; 3 Table of Contents • NetSuite Applications Suite, which is generally marketed to small to medium-sized organizations and is designed to be a unified, cloud-based applications suite to run a company’s entire business, includes modules for managing financials, supply chains, customer relationships, workforces, professional services and commerce, among others; and • Oracle Health applications, which are designed to enable medical professionals to deliver better healthcare to individual patients and communities. In addition, we offer several cloud-based industry solutions to address specific customer needs within certain industries including communications, construction and engineering, education, financial services, government, healthcare, hospitality, utilities and retail, among others. OCA offerings are built upon open industry standards such as SQL, Java and HTML5 for easier application accessibility, integration and development. Customers access OCA offerings utilizing common web browsers via a broad spectrum of devices. Our cloud applications revenues represented 47%, 58% and 65% of our total cloud revenues during fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We believe that the comprehensiveness and breadth of our cloud applications offerings differentiate us from many of our competitors that offer more limited or specialized applications. Our cloud applications offerings are designed to support connected business processes in the cloud and are centered on an intuitive and conversational user experience, a responsive, open and flexible business core and a common data model. We believe Oracle Fusion Cloud ERP is a strategic suite of applications that is foundational to facilitating and extracting more business value out of the adoption of other OCA offerings, such as Oracle Fusion Cloud HCM and Oracle Fusion Cloud CX, as customers realize the value of a common data model that spans across core business applications. We believe our cloud applications offerings together remove business boundaries between front- and back-office activities. Our cloud applications offerings are designed to deliver a secure data isolation architecture and flexible upgrades; self-service access controls for users; a Service-Oriented Architecture; built-in social, mobile and business insight capabilities (analytics); and a high performance, high availability infrastructure based on OCI. These cloud applications capabilities are designed to simplify customer IT environments, reduce time to implement and upgrade, enable agility, reduce risk and provide a user-friendly experience. Our cloud applications offerings incorporate advanced technologies such as AI, machine learning, blockchain, digital assistants and advances in the “human interface” and how users interact with OCA offerings within a business context or to augment human capabilities to enhance productivity. Oracle Applications Software Licenses Customers have the ability to buy software licenses for Oracle Applications, including Oracle E-Business Suite, PeopleSoft, JD Edwards and Siebel applications, among others, for use within the Oracle Cloud or within their own cloud-based or on-premise IT environments. These applications are designed to manage and automate core business functions across the enterprise, including HCM, ERP, EPM, SCM, CX and industry-specific applications, as described above, among others. Oracle Infrastructure Technologies Oracle infrastructure technologies are marketed, sold and delivered through our cloud and software and hardware businesses. Our infrastructure technologies are designed to be flexible, cost-effective, standards-based, secure and highly-performant to facilitate the development, deployment, integration, management and extension across an organization’s cloud-based, on-premise and hybrid IT environments. Our infrastructure technologies offerings include Oracle AI Database and MySQL Database, the world’s most popular database management systems; Java, the computer industry’s most widely used language for cloud-native development; and middleware development tools and a range of hardware products, such as Oracle Engineered Systems, enterprise servers, storage solutions and industry-specific hardware. We also offer a portfolio of operating systems, including Oracle Linux, virtualization and other hardware-related software and a range of management technologies and products, including Oracle Enterprise Manager and the Oracle Cloud Observability and Management platform. These infrastructure technologies are available either through subscriptions to our OCI offerings or through the purchase of software licenses and hardware products and related support, giving customers the flexibility to deploy in cloud-based, 4 Table of Contents on-premise or hybrid IT environments. Our customers leverage these comprehensive offerings to run their internal business operations and to deliver products and services to their customers. Our cloud infrastructure revenues represented 53%, 42% and 35% of our total cloud revenues during fiscal 2026, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We design our infrastructure technologies to work in our customers’ on-premise IT environments that may include other Oracle or non-Oracle hardware or software components. Our flexible and open approach also provides Oracle customers with a choice as to how they can utilize and deploy Oracle infrastructure technologies: through the use of Oracle Cloud offerings; on-premise in our customers’ data centers; or a hybrid combination of these two deployment models, such as in the Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer deployment model (described further below). We focus on the operation and integration of Oracle infrastructure technologies to make them easier to deploy, extend, interconnect, manage and maintain for our customers and to improve computing performance relative to our competitors’ offerings. For example, the Oracle Exadata Database Machine integrates multiple Oracle technology components to work together to deliver improved performance, availability, scalability, security and operational efficiency of Oracle AI Database workloads relative to our competitors’ products. Our primary infrastructure offerings are further described below. Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) OCI offerings are designed to deliver our infrastructure technologies, including compute, storage, networking, and cloud-native services, along with new and innovative solutions such as AI Infrastructure, generative AI and agentic AI. OCI offerings include our Oracle Autonomous AI Database offerings, among others, that Oracle runs, manages, upgrades and supports on behalf of the customer. We also offer a portfolio of specialized databases to address specific customer requirements, including MySQL, the world’s most popular open source database, as a cloud service with Oracle MySQL HeatWave. By utilizing OCI, customers can leverage the Oracle Cloud for enterprise-grade, high-performance, scalable, cost-effective and secure infrastructure technologies that are designed to be rapidly deployable and provide real-time elasticity while reducing the amount of time and resources normally consumed by IT processes within on-premise environments. OCI is designed to be differentiated from other cloud vendors to provide better security by separating cloud control code computers from customer compute nodes. Customers use OCI to build and operate new applications ranging from low-code to AI-powered cloud-native applications, to run new workloads and to move their existing Oracle or non-Oracle workloads to the Oracle Cloud from their on-premise data centers or other cloud-based IT environments, among other uses. We continue to invest in OCI to improve features and performance; to expand the catalog of cloud-based infrastructure tools and services that we provide; to increase the capacity and geographic footprint to deliver these services; to simplify the processes for migrating workloads to the Oracle Cloud; and to provide customers with the ability to run workloads across different IT environments, the Oracle Cloud as well as other third-party clouds in both multicloud and hybrid deployment models. Oracle customers and partners utilize OCI offerings for platform-related services that are based upon the Oracle AI Database, Java and Oracle Middleware, including open source and other tools for a variety of use cases across data management (including the use of Oracle Autonomous AI Database and Oracle MySQL HeatWave), applications development, integration, content management, analytics, IT management and governance, security and rapidly emerging technologies such as AI and machine learning. OCI AI services are designed to be embedded into customer applications for a variety of predictive use cases, including, among others, the servicing of machine parts that are at risk of failing, using generative AI for fault detection on an assembly line, improving customer experiences in the purchasing of consumer products, managing the supply chain to keep retailer store shelves refreshed, credit fraud detection and financial modeling to stay within a business’ forecasts. OCI compute services range from virtual machines and graphics processing unit (GPU)-based offerings to bare metal servers, with options for high I/O workloads and high-performance computing to run traditional compute-intensive workloads and AI model training and inference. OCI storage offerings include block, file, object and archive storage services. In addition, our OCI offerings include networking, connectivity and edge services that help connect 5 Table of Contents customers’ data centers and third-party clouds with our OCI services for the creation of distributed and multicloud architectures. To complement the full suite of OCI offerings delivered by Oracle public cloud regions across the globe, we provide our customers with additional flexibility by offering certain OCI services in a number of deployment options, such as: • Oracle’s Multicloud Database offerings, which are designed to enable organizations to deploy and run Oracle AI Database services, Oracle Autonomous AI Database and Oracle Zero Data Loss Autonomous Recovery Service within other hyperscale cloud IT environments. This allows customers to leverage AI and analytics services from their cloud providers with their enterprise data; • Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer, which is designed to enable customers to run Oracle Autonomous AI Database and Oracle Exadata Database Service securely in their own data centers behind their firewalls while having the services managed by Oracle; • OCI Dedicated Region, which is designed to enable customers to bring a self-contained OCI instance into their data centers while accessing the full portfolio of OCI and OCA offerings; • OCI Sovereign Cloud, which is designed to enable customers to utilize OCI services while addressing regulatory restrictions imposed upon customers that operate in certain industries, entities or jurisdictions. This capability now also allows us to offer sovereign AI to customers who want the latest in AI innovations while operating within their regulatory environments; • Oracle Alloy, which is engineered to enable partners to offer OCI and other cloud services to their customers while controlling the commercial and customer experience to address their specific market needs; and • Oracle Compute Cloud@Customer and Oracle Roving Edge Infrastructure, which are designed to enable customers to access cloud computing and storage services at the edge of networks and in generally disconnected locations in order to accelerate deployment of cloud workloads outside of the data center. Oracle Autonomous AI Database Oracle Autonomous AI Database is designed to deliver performance and scale for enterprise AI, analytics, and transaction processing workloads with automated database operations and policy- and AI- and machine learning-driven optimization by combining certain Oracle infrastructure technologies, including the Oracle AI Database, OCI, Oracle Exadata and native AI and machine learning capabilities, among others. Oracle Autonomous AI Database is designed to be self-driving, automating routine database administration tasks, including maintenance, tuning, patching, scaling, security and backup. Oracle Autonomous AI Database is engineered to lower labor costs and reduce human error while using machine learning-driven diagnostics for fault prediction and error handling and is also engineered to provide automatic threat detection and remediation. Oracle Autonomous AI Database is designed to enable on-demand, automatic scaling of database resources combined with consumption-based pricing in order to help organizations lower costs by paying only for resources used. Oracle Autonomous AI Database includes Oracle APEX low-code application development service with AI Assistant, along with open interfaces and integrations, and is designed to provide developers with a modern, open platform to develop new and innovative cloud-native applications. Oracle Autonomous AI Database is available on OCI for serverless or dedicated deployments, as a hybrid deployment with Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer and OCI Dedicated Region. In addition, Oracle Autonomous AI Database is available in multicloud deployments on other hyperscale cloud IT environments. For analytics workloads, Oracle Autonomous AI Database is designed to provide customers with easy-to-use analytics tools, machine learning and AI-driven capabilities that are accelerated using Oracle Exadata’s scale-out infrastructure and work with Oracle Analytics Cloud and third-party analytics tools. We believe Oracle Autonomous AI Database’s built-in developer capabilities and automation can enable organizations to quickly deploy new data marts and data warehouses; move existing ones to the cloud; and create data lakes. All of these capabilities are designed to enable organizations to gain new insights into customer behavior, more accurately anticipate future 6 Table of Contents demand, align workforce deployment with business activity forecasts and accelerate the pace of operations, among other benefits. For transaction processing workloads, Oracle Autonomous AI Database is designed to enable organizations to securely run a mix of high-performance transactions of ranging complexity. It is also designed to enable organizations to efficiently support dynamic workloads, conduct real-time analysis of transactional data and lower administration costs. We offer advanced AI functionality, such as AI Vector Search, Select AI and Private AI Agent Factory, in our recent releases of Oracle AI Database, which enables customers to leverage their data for advanced generative AI functionality without needing to duplicate and maintain such data securely in other databases or external systems, while also providing customers with an option to utilize generative AI large language models (LLMs) of their choice. Oracle Infrastructure Software Licenses Our primary infrastructure software license offerings include licenses to Oracle AI Database, Oracle Middleware and Java. Oracle AI Database is the world’s most popular enterprise database and is designed to enable reliable and secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all forms of data. Oracle AI Database is licensed throughout the world by businesses and organizations of all sizes for a multitude of purposes, including, among others, for use within the Oracle Cloud to deliver our OCA, OCI and AI offerings; for use as a software license by a number of cloud-based vendors as a component of their respective cloud offerings; for packaged and custom applications for transaction processing; and for AI, data warehousing and business intelligence. Oracle AI Database may be deployed in various IT environments, including Oracle Public Cloud, Oracle Exadata Cloud@Customer, OCI Dedicated Region, Oracle Alloy, Oracle multicloud, other cloud-based IT environments and on-premise data centers, among others. Oracle Middleware, which is a broad family of integrated application infrastructure software, is designed to enable customers to design and integrate Oracle and non-Oracle business applications, automate business processes, scale applications to meet customer demand, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycles of documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence. Built with Oracle’s Java technology platform, Oracle Middleware products are designed to be a foundation for custom, packaged and composite applications, thereby simplifying and reducing time-to-deployment. Oracle Middleware is designed to protect customers’ IT investments and work with both Oracle and non-Oracle databases, middleware and applications software through an open architecture and adherence to industry standards. In addition, Oracle Middleware supports multiple development languages and tools, which enables developers to flexibly build once and deploy applications globally across websites, portals and cloud-based applications utilizing a variety of IT environments. Among our other middleware software license offerings, we license development tools, such as Oracle WebLogic Server for Java application development and Oracle Identity Manager, which automates user identity provisioning and allows enterprises to manage the end-to-end lifecycle of user identities across all enterprise resources. Java is the world’s most popular programming language in enterprise use and is used to deliver cloud development and deployment services, microservices, analytics, data management, blockchain, security and continuous integration tools for numerous platforms and technologies, including websites, enterprise and consumer applications, embedded devices and large-scale systems. Java has been adopted by both independent software vendors (ISVs) that have built their products using Java and by enterprise organizations building custom applications or consuming Java-based ISV products. Oracle Engineered Systems Oracle Engineered Systems are core to our cloud-based and on-premise data center infrastructure offerings. Oracle Engineered Systems are pre-built products, combining multiple unique Oracle technology components, that may include database, storage, operating system, virtualization and management software with server, storage, networking hardware and other technologies. Oracle Engineered Systems are designed to deliver improved performance, scalability, availability, security and operational efficiency relative to our competitors’ products; to be upgraded effectively and efficiently; and to simplify maintenance cycles and improve security by providing a single solution for patching. For example, Oracle Exadata Database Machine and its cloud-based analogs, are integrated platforms optimized for Oracle AI Database to achieve higher performance, scalability and availability at a lower 7 Table of Contents cost by combining operating system and management software with Oracle server, storage and networking hardware. We offer our Oracle Engineered Systems through flexible deployment options, including on-premise, as a cloud offering in OCI, as a platform for Oracle AI Database services in Oracle multicloud partner data centers and as a hybrid cloud offering in customer data centers. Oracle Software and Hardware Support We provide customers the option to purchase software support contracts in connection with the purchase of Oracle applications and infrastructure software licenses. Substantially all of our customers opt to purchase software support contracts when they purchase these software licenses. We believe our software support offerings protect and enhance our customers’ investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies because they provide proactive and personalized support services and unspecified license upgrades and enhancements during the term of the support period. Substantially all software support customers renew their support contracts with us upon expiration in order to continue to benefit from technical support services and the periodic issuance of unspecified updates and enhancements, which current software support customers are entitled to receive. Oracle hardware support offerings provide customers with unspecified software updates for software components that are essential to the functionality of our hardware products such as for Oracle operating systems and firmware. These offerings can also include product repairs, maintenance services and technical support services. We continue to evolve hardware support processes that are intended to proactively identify and solve quality issues. Oracle Services We offer services to help customers and partners maximize the performance of their investments in Oracle applications and infrastructure technologies. We believe that our services are differentiated based on our expertise in Oracle technologies, extensive experience and broad sets of intellectual property and best practices. Our services offerings substantially include, among others: • consulting services, which are designed to help our customers and global system integrator partners more successfully architect and deploy our cloud and software offerings, including IT strategy alignment, enterprise architecture planning and design, implementation, integration, application development, security assessments and ongoing software enhancements and upgrades. We utilize a global, blended delivery model to optimize value for our customers and partners, which involves the use of consultants from local geographies, industry specialists and consultants from our global delivery and solution centers; and • customer success services, which are support services provided by Oracle to a customer to enable increased performance and higher availability of a customer’s Oracle products and services. Oracle Cloud Operations Oracle Cloud Operations deliver our Oracle Cloud offerings to customers through a secure, reliable, scalable, enterprise grade cloud infrastructure platform managed by Oracle employees within a global network of data centers. The Oracle Cloud enables secure and isolated cloud-based instances for each of our customers to access the functionality of Oracle Cloud offerings via a broad spectrum of devices. Oracle Cloud Operations leverage automated software tools to enable the rapid delivery of the latest cloud technology capabilities to the Oracle Cloud as they become available and provide Oracle customers access to the latest Oracle releases. We have invested in the rapid expansion of the Oracle Cloud by increasing existing data center capacity and adding data centers in new geographic locations to meet current and expected customer demand. We expect this trend will continue. Manufacturing We rely on third-party manufacturing partners to produce most of our hardware products that we market and sell to customers and utilize internally to deliver Oracle Cloud offerings, and we distribute most of our hardware products from these partners’ facilities. Our manufacturing processes are substantially based on standardization of components across product types and centralization of assembly and distribution centers. Production of our 8 Table of Contents hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number of suppliers. For most of our hardware products, we have existing alternative sources of supply or such sources are readily available. However, we do rely on sole and/or single sources for certain hardware components. We monitor and evaluate potential risks of disruption within our supply chain operations. Refer to Risk Factors included in Item 1A within this Annual Report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our hardware products and the related risks to our businesses. Sales and Marketing We directly market and sell our cloud, software, hardware, support and services offerings globally to businesses of many sizes and in many industries, government agencies and educational institutions. We also market and sell our offerings globally through indirect channels. In the United States (U.S.), our sales and services employees are based throughout the country. Outside the U.S., our international subsidiaries sell, support and service our offerings in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. Our geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage of new markets for our offerings. Our international operations subject us to certain risks, which are more fully described in Risk Factors included in Item 1A of this Annual Report. A summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. We also market our product offerings worldwide through indirect channels. The companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the Oracle Partner Network. The Oracle Partner Network is a global program that manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based network of companies, including cloud and software, hardware and services suppliers, system integrators and resellers that deliver innovative solutions and services based upon and in conjunction with our product offerings. By offering our partners access to our product offerings, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the Oracle Partner Network program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally. Research and Development We develop the substantial majority of our products and services offerings internally utilizing the skills and diversity of a global workforce. In addition, we have extended our products and services offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. We also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. Internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. However, although we believe that our patents have value, neither our business as a whole nor any of our principal businesses are materially dependent on a single patent. Rapid technological advances in cloud, software and hardware development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions, offerings and enhancements characterize the markets in which we compete. We plan to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to develop new products and services offerings, as well as maintain and improve our current offerings. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all, and this risk is further described in Risk Factors included in Item 1A of this Annual Report. Human Capital Resources At Oracle, our success is driven by the quality of our people, who we believe are among the best and brightest in the industry. We strive to attract and retain talented employees, to support our employees’ success and well-being and to foster a culture of inclusion where everyone is empowered to have a voice in driving innovation. The 9 Table of Contents Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors (the Compensation Committee) is responsible for reviewing and monitoring matters related to human capital management, including talent acquisition and retention. Workforce As of May 31, 2026, we employed approximately 141,000 full-time employees, of which approximately 49,000 were employed in the U.S. and approximately 92,000 were employed internationally. Our approximate employee counts by lines of business are: 26,000 Cloud and software 34,000 Services 25,000 Sales and marketing 43,000 Research and development 2,000 Hardware 11,000 General and administrative The average tenure of our employees is approximately eight years and 31% of our employees have been employed with Oracle for ten or more years. None of our employees in the U.S. are represented by labor unions; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries, labor unions or workers’ councils represent some of our employees. Employee Experience In order to attract and retain high quality talent, Oracle strives to deliver a great employee experience, anchored by an inclusive culture where employees can thrive, engage in meaningful work, leverage growth opportunities and focus on their well-being. We support employee well-being from multiple dimensions, including flexible benefits, economic, health, development, lifestyle and compensation. We believe that one of the primary reasons candidates join Oracle is for the opportunity to develop their career and participate in our global inclusive culture. We have programs and resources to help our employees explore, build and achieve their career goals. By promoting an inclusive culture that leverages a broad range of perspectives and fosters a sense of belonging, we inspire and engage our workforce to solve complex problems to help our customers across the globe. We promote regular career conversations between leaders and employees, focused on helping employees identify and take steps to grow their careers. Our Talent Review process, which runs on Oracle Fusion Cloud HCM, provides the mechanism for leaders to review and discuss opportunities and action plans to develop employees. 20% of our open non-entry level positions were filled internally in fiscal 2026, providing growth opportunities and retaining critical knowledge and talent. We believe that helping our employees learn and apply new skills is key to retaining and engaging them. It is also critical to our ability to innovate and rapidly evolve. We believe that our easily accessible learning resources enable us to improve our employees’ learning experience and better measure learning consumption. Oracle employees received more than 4.2 million hours of training in fiscal 2026 and accessed online learning content at an average rate of approximately 2.6 million views per month. Our employees take advantage of instructor-led classes, virtual library content and online learning resources on AI, sales, business, product, market/industry, leadership, technical and compliance skills, well-being and personal development related topics. Leaders Who Listen We believe that an important aspect of creating a workforce that supports employee, customer and business success is listening to employee feedback. We share the results of our annual employee engagement survey with leaders, including members of our Board of Directors (the Board). In fiscal 2026, more than 105,000 employees participated in the annual survey. Leaders listen to employees, evaluate feedback and prioritize actions to enhance employee, business and customer success. 10 Table of Contents Making a Difference Each year, through our volunteering and giving programs, Oracle employees donate tens of thousands of volunteer hours and millions of dollars (matched by Oracle) to a wide variety of causes. Oracle and our employees also rise to the occasion in times of crisis. During fiscal 2026, Oracle donated tens of millions of dollars to advance education, promote health, strengthen communities and protect the environment. We also have two nonprofit foundations that focus on children and young people. Oracle Health Foundation makes pediatric case grants available around the world that fund medical care ranging from hearing aids to major surgeries. Oracle Education Foundation teaches young people how to innovate, solve problems with technology and shape a better future. Oracle Academy, our global philanthropic educational program, is helping build a scalable, job-ready talent pipeline for data centers by aligning education with industry needs through targeted curriculum, partnerships and educator support. Since 2014, Oracle has also partnered with Design Tech High School, a public charter school for which we built a home at our Redwood Shores, California campus in 2016. Most recently, Oracle has brought its philanthropic efforts to the communities near its data center sites, funding local nonprofit organizations that deliver a range of programs, including education, food security, housing and health. Seasonality and Cyclicality Our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the IT industry. In each fiscal year, our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. See “Cloud and Software Business” in Item 7 of this Annual Report for more information regarding the seasonality and cyclicality of the revenues, expenses and margins of our cloud and software business, which is our largest business. Competition We face intense competition in all aspects of our business. The nature of the IT industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as customer demands and competitive pressures otherwise change. Our customers are demanding less complexity, more cost-effective and higher performance and availability in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their IT environments. Our enterprise cloud, software and hardware offerings compete directly with certain offerings from some of the largest and most competitive companies in the world, including Adobe Systems Incorporated, Alphabet Inc., Amazon.com, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Intel Corporation, International Business Machines Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, Salesforce, Inc. and SAP SE, as well as other companies like Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and Workday, Inc. In addition, due to the low barriers to entry in many of our market segments, new technologies and new and growing competitors frequently emerge to challenge our offerings. Our competitors range from companies offering broad IT solutions across many of our lines of business to vendors providing point solutions, or offerings focused on a specific functionality, product area or industry. In addition, as we expand into new market segments, we face increased competition as we compete with existing competitors, as well as firms that may be partners in other areas of our business and other firms with whom we have not previously competed. For example, following our acquisition of Cerner Corporation, we also face competition from large healthcare IT providers such as Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., Arcadia Solutions, athenahealth, Inc., Epic Systems Corporation and InterSystems Corporation, among others. Moreover, we or our competitors may take certain strategic actions—including acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures or repositioning of product lines—which invite even greater competition in one or more product offering categories. 11 Table of Contents Key competitive factors in each of the segments in which we currently compete and may compete in the future include: total cost of ownership, performance, scalability, reliability, security, functionality, efficiency, ease of use, speed to production and quality of technical support. Our products and services sales and the relative strength of our products and services versus those of our competitors are also directly and indirectly affected by the following, among other factors: • market adoption of cloud-based IT offerings, including Oracle Cloud offerings; • our ability to develop AI technologies and features and to have access to AI technologies of competitors; • the ease of deployment, use, transacting for and maintenance of our products and services offerings; • compatibility between Oracle products and services deployed within local IT environments and public cloud IT environments, including our Oracle Cloud environments; • the adoption of open source alternatives to commercial software by enterprise software customers; • products, features and functionality developed internally by customers and their IT staff; • products, features and functionality customized and implemented for customers by consultants, systems integrators or other third parties; and • the attractiveness of offerings from business processing outsourcers. For more information about the competitive risks we face, refer to Item 1A Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Governmental Regulation We operate globally and are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters. For information about governmental regulations applicable to our business, refer to Item 1A Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on the SEC website at www.sec.gov and our Investor Relations website at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. We use our Investor Relations website as a means of disclosing material non-public information. Accordingly, investors should monitor our Investor Relations website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. In addition, information regarding our environmental policy and global sustainability initiatives and solutions are also available on our website at www.oracle.com/social-impact. This Annual Report includes several website addresses and references to additional company reports found on those websites. These website addresses are intended to provide inactive, textual references only. The information on these websites, including the information contained in the reports found on those websites, is not part of this Annual Report and is not incorporated by reference. 12 Table of Contents Information About Our Executive Officers Our executive officers are listed below: Name Office(s) Lawrence J. Ellison Executive Chair of the Board of Directors and Chief Technology Officer Clayton M. Magouyrk Chief Executive Officer and Director Michael D. Sicilia Chief Executive Officer and Director Mark Hura President, Global Field Operations Hilary Maxson Chief Financial Officer Safra A. Catz Executive Vice Chair of the Board of Directors Jeffrey O. Henley Executive Vice Chair of the Board of Directors Stuart Levey Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer Maria Smith Executive Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer Mr. Ellison, 81, has been our Executive Chair of the Board and Chief Technology Officer since September 2014. He served as our Chief Executive Officer from June 1977, when he founded Oracle, until September 2014. He has served as a Director since June 1977. He previously served as our Chairman of the Board from May 1995 to January 2004. Mr. Magouyrk, 39, has been our Chief Executive Officer since September 2025. He served as our President, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure from June to September 2025. From December 2019 to June 2025, he served as an Executive Vice President in various roles, including Executive Vice President, Cloud Infrastructure and Executive Vice President, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Engineering. Prior to being named Executive Vice President, Mr. Magouyrk held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 2014. Prior to joining Oracle, he was a senior engineer at Amazon and Amazon Web Services from 2008 to 2014. Mr. Sicilia, 55, has been our Chief Executive Officer since September 2025. He served as our President, Industries from June to September 2025. From October 2019 to June 2025, he served as an Executive Vice President in various roles, including Executive Vice President, Industries and Executive Vice President, Global Business Units. Prior to being named Executive Vice President, Mr. Sicilia held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 2009. Prior to joining Oracle, he was Chief Technology Officer at Primavera Systems and held other positions from 1993 to 2008. Mr. Hura, 52, has been our President, Global Field Operations since September 2025. He served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of North America Cloud Infrastructure Sales from June 2023 to August 2025. He previously served as our Executive Vice President of Cloud & Technology Sales from June 2021 to June 2023. Mr. Hura held various other positions since joining Oracle in 2013. Prior to joining Oracle, Mr. Hura served as General Manager of Sales for the Digital Energy business at General Electric. Ms. Maxson, 48, has been our Chief Financial Officer since April 2026. She served as Executive Vice President and Group Chief Financial Officer of Schneider Electric SE (Schneider) from 2020 until April 2026. Prior to that, she was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Energy Management of Schneider from 2019 to 2020 and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Building and IT of Schneider from 2017 to the end of 2018. Ms. Maxson serves on the board of directors of Anglo American plc. Ms. Catz, 64, has been our Executive Vice Chair of the Board since September 2025. She served as our Chief Executive Officer from September 2014 to September 2025, President from January 2004 to September 2014, our Chief Financial Officer most recently from April 2011 until September 2014 and a Director since October 2001. She was previously our Chief Financial Officer from November 2005 until September 2008 and our Interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2005 until July 2005. Prior to being named our President, she held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 1999. She currently serves as a director of Paramount Skydance Corporation and she previously served as a director of The Walt Disney Company. Mr. Henley, 81, has been our Executive Vice Chair of the Board since September 2014. He served as our Chairman of the Board from January 2004 to September 2014 and has served as a Director since June 1995. He served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from March 1991 to July 2004. 13 Table of Contents Mr. Levey, 63, has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer since October 2022. Prior to joining Oracle, Mr. Levey served as Chief Executive Officer of Diem Association from August 2020 until June 2022, and as Chief Legal Officer of HSBC Holdings, plc from January 2012 to August 2020. Ms. Smith, 60, has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since December 2022. She served as our Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller from December 2020 to December 2022, as our Senior Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller from September 2017 to December 2020 and as our Vice President, Global Controllers Organization and Mergers and Acquisitions from November 2012 to September 2017. She held various other positions with us since joining Oracle in 1999. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A. R isk Factors We operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The following discussion, as well as our discussion in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, highlights some of these risks. The risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be insignificant also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results in the future. If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Risk Factor Summary Business and Operational Risks • We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products and services, integrating acquired products and services and enhancing our existing products and services. • Our AI products may not operate as anticipated, which could adversely affect our reputation, revenues and profitability. • If we do not successfully execute our Oracle Cloud strategy, including our offerings of Oracle Cloud, our revenues and profitability may decline. • If we are unable to secure data center capacity at affordable rates or do not accurately plan for and manage our infrastructure capacity requirements, our profitability may decline. • Our cloud offerings and hardware offerings are complex, and if we cannot successfully manage this complexity, including the sourcing of technologies and components, the results of these businesses will suffer. • We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. • Our products and services may not function properly if we experience significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors in our cloud, software and hardware offerings. • If we are unable to compete effectively, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed. • Any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results. • Our periodic workforce restructurings and reorganizations can be disruptive. • We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. • There are risks associated with our cloud and software and hardware indirect sales channels which could affect our future operating results. • Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances present many risks and we may not achieve the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. • We are subject to risks with respect to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters. Data Privacy, Cybersecurity and Intellectual Property Risks • We are subject to business, financial and reputational risks related to cybersecurity incidents and data breaches. • Our business practices with respect to data could give rise to operational interruption, liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to privacy and data protection. • Third parties have claimed, and in the future may claim, infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. • We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. 15 Table of Contents Legal and Regulatory Risks • Adverse litigation results could affect our business. • We may be subjected to increased taxes due to changes in U.S. or international tax laws, the inability to obtain or retain tax incentives, or from adverse resolutions of tax audits and controversies. • Our international sales and operations and global customer base subject us to additional risks, including trade restrictions, export controls and sanctions, that can adversely affect our operating results. • The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and thus, we are subject to several laws, regulations and industry initiatives, non-compliance with certain of which could adversely affect our healthcare business. • Our sales to local, state, federal and foreign government customers expose us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, government shutdowns, procurement regulations, governmental policy shifts, early termination of contracts, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. • Environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. Financial Risks • Our operations can be difficult for us to predict because our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly based on a number of factors. • Changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect customer demand and our revenues and profitability. • There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. • If our accounting estimates and judgments turn out to be inaccurate, our future financial results could fall short of expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Risks Related to our Common and Preferred Stock • Our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. • Conversion of our 6.50% Series D Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock) and our depositary shares, or the payment of dividends on Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock in shares of common stock, or the issuance of shares of our common stock under the At the Market (ATM) Program will dilute the ownership interest of the holders of our common stock. • The ATM Program, the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock or our depositary shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and we cannot guarantee that our ATM Program will be fully implemented. • Our common stock ranks junior to our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and amounts payable in the event of our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution. • We cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. General Risks • Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. • Significant events in certain geographic locations could adversely affect our operating results and disrupt our business. 16 Table of Contents Business and Operational Risks We may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products and services, integrating acquired products and services and enhancing our existing products and services. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, intense competition, changing delivery models, evolving standards in communications infrastructure, increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. We have continued to refresh and release new offerings of our cloud products and services, but if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, enhance and improve our product offerings and support services in a timely manner or position and price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not purchase or subscribe to our software, hardware or cloud offerings or renew software support, hardware support or cloud subscriptions contracts. Renewals of these contracts are important to our future success. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. In addition, our business may be adversely affected if: • we do not continue to develop and release new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames; • it takes more time or costs more than anticipated to build out the infrastructure required to deliver new or enhanced products and services; • supply chain costs, energy costs or other costs to develop, produce or distribute our products and services result in greater costs than anticipated; • we are unable to accurately anticipate, pay for, plan for and manage future data center capacity needs in a timely manner to meet current or expected customer demand; • we fail to meet our contractual service level commitments; • there is a delay in market acceptance of and difficulty in transitioning new and existing customers to new, enhanced or acquired product lines or services; • sanctions, tariffs, export controls, geopolitical instability, strained economic relationships between countries and related market disruptions or other regulatory, legislative or trade and non-tariff barriers, including retaliatory measures, impede or prevent us from serving certain customers based on their location, jurisdiction of incorporation, ownership, control or other ties to restricted jurisdictions, or restrict us or our customers from operating in specific jurisdictions; • inflation, trade policy, geopolitical conditions and other macroeconomic factors reduce customer demand or their ability to pay for our products and services or cause us to be unable to meet current or expected customer demand; • there are changes in IT trends that we do not adequately anticipate or timely address with our product development efforts; • we do not optimize complementary product lines and services in a timely manner; or • we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services. In addition, our profitability and revenues could be adversely impacted if we lose one or more of our key customers for any reason, including as a result of any of the factors discussed above, or if one or more of our key customers experiences insolvency, bankruptcy or other issues impacting their creditworthiness. Any such loss could also limit or reduce our growth in future periods. Our AI products may not operate as anticipated, which could adversely affect our reputation, revenues and profitability. Machine learning and AI, including generative AI, agentic AI and LLMs, are increasingly driving innovations in technology, and AI technology and services are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. We are building AI into many of our product offerings and we are also making AI available for our customers to use in solutions that they build. We have made significant investments in AI initiatives, including investments in infrastructure and headcount, and we expect to continue to invest significant resources to build and support our AI products in support of our growth strategy. In addition, we rely on partners and suppliers to produce some of our AI products. If we are unable to introduce new AI products, or if our AI products fail to operate as anticipated or as well as competing products or otherwise do not meet customer needs, if our competitors’ AI products achieve higher market acceptance than ours, or if we incur costs higher than expected to build and support our AI products, we may fail to recoup our investments in AI and our business and reputation may be harmed. Further, if we do not 17 Table of Contents continue to invest significant resources to develop and support our AI products, we may fall behind technological developments and evolving industry standards, which would likewise harm our ability to compete. AI technologies are rapidly changing and present evolving legal, regulatory and ethical issues, including claims of bias, discrimination, a perceived lack of transparency, as well as sometimes unpredictable behaviors or inadvertent use or incorporation in model training or outputs of copyrighted or other protected material, such as personal and patient health information, any of which could expose us or our customers to reputational or legal risk and inhibit adoption of our AI products. Moreover, AI models and training approaches may contain errors or limitations. The data used to develop or operate AI systems may be overly broad, incomplete, or include biased or inaccurate information, which could result in outputs that are offensive, unlawful, inaccurate or otherwise harmful. If we enable or offer AI products that draw controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on society, or if we are unable to develop, implement and maintain effective internal policies and frameworks relating to the responsible development and use of AI, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm or legal liability. Jurisdictions around the world are developing and passing new regulations that apply specifically to the use of AI. For example, the U.S. AI regulatory framework remains in development and has been introduced at the federal level through executive orders and legislation has been introduced and enacted at the state level. Additionally, obligations under the EU AI Act have gone into effect and will continue to be implemented in phases through 2030, and other jurisdictions have passed or are considering similarly focused legislation. Regulatory uncertainty, including the lack of comprehensive federal legislation and a patchwork of existing and proposed frameworks and regulatory initiatives in numerous jurisdictions, may expose us to compliance challenges, costs and uncertainties requiring us to manage varying and sometimes conflicting expectations in the U.S. and globally, including potential government restrictions on AI infrastructure, compute resources, model weights, cross-border AI services, customer access and localization or nationalization initiatives. Our failure to adapt to these changes, or any failure by our employees, contractors, partners, suppliers, customers or agents to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our AI products or our related policies and procedures, could result in legal, financial and reputational consequences including, but not limited to, being required to adjust or limit our product offerings or our use of AI in certain jurisdictions to comply with new and evolving AI laws and regulations. If we do not successfully execute our Oracle Cloud strategy, including our offerings of Oracle Cloud, our revenues and profitability may decline. We provide our cloud and other offerings to customers worldwide via a variety of deployment models, including via our cloud-based OCA and OCI offerings. As these business models continue to evolve, we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our cloud offerings. Additionally, the increasing prevalence of various cloud offering models by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our cloud and software offerings. If we do not successfully execute our cloud computing strategy or anticipate the cloud computing needs of our customers, our reputation as a cloud services provider could be harmed and our revenues and profitability could decline. As customer demand for our cloud offerings increases, we experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our software license and hardware product arrangements relative to our cloud offering arrangements. Customers predominantly purchase our cloud offerings on a subscription basis, and revenues from these offerings are generally recognized ratably or as services are consumed over the terms of the subscriptions. Consequently, any deterioration in sales activity associated with our cloud offerings may not be immediately observable in our consolidated statements of operations. This is in contrast to revenues associated with our license and hardware product arrangements, which are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery of the related licenses and hardware products. In addition, we may not be able to accurately anticipate customer transitions from, or be able to sufficiently backfill reduced customer demand for, our software, hardware and support offerings relative to the expected increase in customer adoption of and demand for our Oracle Cloud, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. If we are unable to secure data center capacity at affordable rates or do not accurately plan for and manage our infrastructure capacity requirements, our profitability may decline. To grow our OCI business, which requires increased computing capacity, we must incur significant capital and operating expenditures to increase our existing data center capacity and to establish data centers in new geographic locations. In connection with these investments, we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into long-term lease commitments with third-party data center providers and other significant commitments with suppliers of chips and other data center infrastructure. If we underestimate customer demand or our data center capacity needs, we may face shortages of available infrastructure, limiting our ability to support customer growth and potentially causing us to lose business to competitors. Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand or any of our key customers are unable to pay or 18 Table of Contents otherwise perform under their contracts with us, we could be locked into multi-year commitments for excess data center space and related capital expenditures, as well as associated financings, without receiving corresponding revenue. In addition, the terms, renewal options and pricing adjustments in our long-term data center leases typically do not align with the duration and pricing of customer contracts, and if customers do not renew their contracts, we may be unable to re-lease, repurpose or assign such capacity on acceptable terms, if at all. Our business is, and may continue to be, exposed to risks of customer non-payment and non-performance. Our customer base and our policies and procedures to manage our exposure to credit risk, including through receipt of prepayments under some of our committed contracts, credit analysis and monitoring procedures, cannot fully eliminate customer credit risk, and to the extent our policies and procedures prove to be inadequate, it could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks and, even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience risks of non-payment and non-performance in our dealings with such parties. In certain OCI offerings, we are more concentrated among a number of large customers, which could increase these risks. Our data center expansion depends on access to suitable, permitted build sites; reliable and predictable power sources; networking hardware; and server availability, including graphics processing units, memory devices and other critical components. Data centers in geographies that we rely on may be unavailable on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Government-imposed limits or moratoria on data center construction in a given market could hinder our ability to execute our expansion plans or prevent us from completing planned data center projects. Even where suitable sites and capacity are available, our data center expansion plans are complex and subject to execution risks, including, among others, delays or cost increases related to design, engineering, permitting, construction, utility interconnection, equipment delivery and contractor performance. Our ability to build and operate data centers also may be affected by existing and evolving laws, regulations and policies relating to land use and zoning, environmental permitting, energy usage, grid reliability, greenhouse gas emissions, water usage, building codes, health and safety, tax incentives and data localization. These requirements, or changes in their interpretation or enforcement, could increase our capital and operating costs, delay or prevent planned projects, limit where or how we build or operate data centers, or adversely affect our ability to meet customer commitments and anticipated demand. In addition, we depend on third parties to develop and deliver certain data center capacity and related infrastructure, and their inability to obtain financing, complete construction on schedule or manage construction cost overruns could delay the availability of data center space or increase our costs. We have faced, and may continue to face, challenges with securing reliable and cost-effective power sources for our data center energy demands, which are constrained globally due to the significant increase in demand for and limited availability of energy to power AI compute. These constraints on available power sources could disrupt operations at affected data centers or restrict our capacity to grow, adversely impacting our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. In addition, power prices can be volatile, including due to extreme weather events and market structure in certain regions, and increases in energy costs can adversely affect our margins, particularly where customer pricing is fixed or committed. We also may enter into long-term power supply arrangements, including power purchase agreements or similar arrangements, that may extend beyond customer contract terms and expose us to counterparty risk, pricing risk and potential collateral or credit support requirements. We also may be unable to secure sufficient energy resources on acceptable terms to meet customer expectations or our sustainability goals. These investments and commitments may require significant cash outlays before, or in excess of, the revenues or cash flows generated by the related capacity, which could adversely affect our cash flows, increase our need for external financing or require us to reduce, delay or reprioritize other investments. We also rely on third-party suppliers to provide equipment and components required to outfit these data centers on a timely basis. We do not control the operation of these third-party data centers, and they may suffer interruptions in service from events beyond our control, including from acts of government, natural events, power loss, break-ins or misconduct by those third parties. Ongoing or future delays or the inability to meet customer demand could cause the loss of additional sales, delay our revenue recognition or increase our costs, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our business. We typically depreciate these assets over their estimated useful lives, which could be shortened should our cloud strategies change, which could adversely affect our profitability. Further, evolving customer requirements and technological changes in data center design and equipment may 19 Table of Contents require retrofits or other incremental capital expenditures, and physical damage to data centers or key energy infrastructure from natural disasters, geopolitical events, terrorist events or other catastrophic events could adversely affect our profitability. Our cloud offerings and hardware offerings are complex, and if we cannot successfully manage this complexity, including the sourcing of technologies and components, the results of these businesses will suffer. We depend on suppliers to develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary technologies and components for our hardware products that we market and sell to our customers and that we use as a part of our cloud infrastructure to deliver our cloud offerings, and there are some technologies and components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology, availability or other business constraints. Our supply chain operations are affected by industry consolidation and component constraints or shortages, natural disasters, political unrest (such as conflicts in the Middle East and the tensions between China and Taiwan), public health crises, changes to trade laws or regulations, tariffs and customs controls, port stoppages, shipping interruptions or other transportation disruptions or slowdowns, and other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located or where the products are being shipped. If disruption caused by one or more of the risks described above occurs, our cloud and software business and hardware business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Supply chain shortages have in some instances resulted in increases to the costs of production of our hardware products that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. In addition, we have in some instances responded to such shortages by committing to higher purchases and balances of hardware products that we market and sell to our customers and that we use as a part of our cloud infrastructure to deliver our cloud offerings, relative to our historical positions. For example, industry supply capacity for AI accelerators, including graphics processing units, as well as memory devices, is competitive, and we at times have to accept less favorable terms with suppliers to minimize supply constraints. While this permits us to secure cloud infrastructure capacity, it has increased excess and obsolescence risk of such hardware products and could adversely impact our profitability and cash flows. We expect these factors will continue to impact us in the future. In addition, the actual useful lives, performance characteristics or failure rates of certain components may differ from our expectations, and we may incur unplanned repair, replacement or refreshment costs, including in some cases outside applicable warranty coverage. Delays in delivery of critical components could cause us to incur operating costs for data center capacity that is not yet revenue-generating and, in some cases, could subject us to penalties or other contractual remedies. We outsource most of our manufacturing, assembly, delivery and technology of, and certain component designs for, our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the U.S. From time to time, these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products on a timely or cost-effective basis, including as a result of changes to trade laws or regulations, tariffs, sanctions and export or import controls. Ongoing or future delays or cost increases in manufacturing could cause the loss of additional sales, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our cloud and software business and hardware business. These challenges could arise if we alter our manufacturing strategies, suppliers, or locations. We also store inventory and equipment in third-party logistics, warehousing or staging facilities, and these assets may be subject to damage, theft, break-ins or other losses that may not be fully covered by insurance. We may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. Developing our various product offerings is expensive and the return on investment is often long. An important element of our corporate strategy is to commit significant resources to research and development, as well as related product and service opportunities, both through internal investments and the acquisition of intellectual property from acquired companies. Accelerated product and service introductions and short lifecycles require high levels of research and development spending, which could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. We believe that continued investment in research and development is essential to maintaining our competitive position. However, our investments in research and development may fail to yield competitive products and services and we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. 20 Table of Contents Our products and services may not function properly if we experience significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors in our cloud, software and hardware offerings. Despite testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our cloud, software and hardware offerings sometimes contain coding, manufacturing or configuration errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. The detection and correction of any errors in released cloud, software or hardware offerings can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our cloud, software or hardware offerings, or errors embedded in third-party software products or services incorporated into our own products, can affect their ability to properly function, integrate or operate with other cloud, software or hardware offerings; result in service interruptions, delays or outages of our cloud offerings; create security vulnerabilities in our products or services; delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services; and adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. If we experience any of these errors, or if there are delays in releasing our cloud, software or hardware offerings or new versions of these offerings, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. In addition, we run Oracle’s business operations as well as cloud and other services that we offer to our customers on our products and networks. Therefore, any flaws could affect our and our customers’ abilities to conduct business operations and to ensure accuracy in financial processes and reporting, and may result in unanticipated costs and interruptions. Enterprise customers rely on our cloud, software and hardware offerings and related services to run their businesses, and errors in our cloud, software and hardware offerings and related services could expose us to product liability, performance and warranty claims as well as significant harm to our brand and reputation, which could impact our future sales. If we are unable to compete effectively, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed. We face intense competition in all aspects of our business. The nature of the IT industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as delivery models change. Our enterprise cloud, software and hardware offerings compete directly with certain offerings from some of the largest and most competitive companies in the world, many of which have well-developed customer bases and strong brand recognition. In addition, due to the low barriers to entry in many of our market segments, new technologies and new, agile and growing competitors frequently emerge to challenge our offerings. We believe many vendors spend amounts in excess of what Oracle spends to develop and market applications and infrastructure technologies including databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence, compute, storage and networking products, among others, which compete with Oracle applications and infrastructure offerings. In addition, use of our competitors’ technologies can influence a customer’s purchasing decision or create an environment that makes it less efficient to utilize or migrate to Oracle products and services. For example, we offer our customers multicloud services whereby our customers can combine cloud services from multiple clouds with the goal of optimizing cost, functionality and performance. OCI’s multicloud services work with a number of our competitors’ products, including Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services and Google Cloud. This multicloud strategy could lead our customers to migrate away from our cloud offerings to our competitors’ products or limit their purchases of additional Oracle products, either of which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our competitors may also seek to attract or retain customers who might otherwise purchase our products and services by offering competing products and services on terms that we may not generally find acceptable. We could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices, better execute on their sales and marketing strategies, offer more flexible business practices, provide debt or equity financing to customers or form strategic alliances with other companies. Mergers, consolidations or alliances among our competitors, or acquisitions of our competitors by large companies, may result in increased competition. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices, introduce pricing models and offerings or offer other terms that are less favorable to us to compete successfully. Any such changes may reduce revenues and margins and could adversely affect operating results. Additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our other cloud, software, hardware and services offerings, and we have incurred increased cloud delivery expenses as we expand our cloud operations and update our infrastructure, all of which could reduce our revenues and profitability. Our software support fees and hardware support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net software license fees and net new hardware products fees, respectively. Our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our offerings. If we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products, changes in customer demand or increased competition, our revenues could decrease. 21 Table of Contents Any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results . Our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues related to our applications and infrastructure offerings. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services or resolve issues efficiently. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or even the perception that our support is insufficient, could adversely affect our reputation, negatively impact our relationships with our customers, hinder our ability to sell and renew our applications and infrastructure offerings to existing and prospective customers, and negatively impact our business, operating results and financial position. Our periodic workforce restructurings and reorganizations can be disruptive. We have an existing restructuring plan in place under which we have made, and will continue to make, adjustments to our workforce in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, changes in strategies, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. We may initiate new restructuring plans in the future. In addition, the adoption and deployment of AI technologies across our operations have resulted, and may continue to result, in reductions to our workforce. These types of restructurings have resulted, and may in the future result, in increased restructuring costs and reduced productivity. These types of restructurings may also lead to shortages of sufficiently skilled employees in certain roles, loss of valuable institutional knowledge and damage to employee morale and retention. Hiring freezes or slowdowns can also result in decreased productivity while existing employees take on additional roles and responsibilities, and may also lead to a shortage of sufficiently skilled employees in certain roles. In addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth, resource redeployment or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or may not do so within our expected timeframe. These effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings, and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected. We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. We rely on hiring qualified employees and retaining our senior management, including our Executive Chair of the Board, Chief Technology Officer and founder; our Chief Executive Officers; other executive team members; and key employees. In the technology industry, especially in the AI field, competition for highly skilled business, product development and technical personnel is intense and ongoing. For example, in recent years, recruiting, hiring and retaining employees with expertise in the AI computing industry has become increasingly difficult as the demand for AI computing infrastructure has increased as a result of the increase in AI and machine learning development, deployment and demand. In addition, implementation of AI tools may require new skills and capabilities, and we may not be successful in reskilling current employees. We may also face rising compensation costs without corresponding gains in productivity or sales. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. With rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment agreements with our employees. Members of our senior management team have left Oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and any future departures may be disruptive to our operations. To manage expenses, we hire personnel in countries where advanced technical and other expertise are available at lower costs. When we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. We are experiencing increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which has affected our employee retention efforts and increased our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. In addition, changes to immigration and labor law policies may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent. Our general compensation program includes restricted stock units (RSUs), stock options and performance-based equity, which are important tools in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. Our stock price has been volatile in recent periods, and if it were to stagnate or further decline, our ability to retain or attract employees may be harmed. We continually evaluate our compensation practices and consider changes from time to time, which may have an impact on our ability to retain employees and the amount of stock-based compensation expense that we record. Any changes in our compensation practices or those of our competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. 22 Table of Contents There are risks associated with our cloud and software and hardware indirect sales channels which could affect our future operating results. Our cloud and software and hardware indirect channel networks consist primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and ISVs. Our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our cloud, software and hardware marketing and sales efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if: • our contracts with channel participants were terminated or our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate; • any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant; • the financial condition or operations of our channel participants were to weaken; or • the level of demand for our channel participants’ products and services were to decrease. We may not successfully maintain, expand or develop our relationships with channel participants. If we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. In addition, we do not control channel participants, some of whom operate in jurisdictions with elevated corruption risks. Our compliance policies and procedures may fail to prevent or detect violations of anti-corruption or other laws, and channel participants may violate such laws, all of which could subject us to litigation or regulatory risk and result in liability. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances present many risks and we may not achieve the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. We regularly review and consider strategic acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances. These transactions present material risks and challenges, including but not limited to: • business disruption and management distraction; • introduction of additional compliance obligations or new risks, including with respect to increased privacy and data collection concerns, content moderation and censorship, and system outages; • challenges in managing acquired technologies or lines of business, entering new markets where we have no, or limited, direct prior experience or market positions, or retaining key personnel from the acquired companies; • transactions that do not meet strategic expectations, including due to difficulties integrating acquired companies, negative impacts from imposed business practices or different go-to-market strategies, and the risk of overpaying or failing to realize expected returns on our investments, each or all of which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition, including intangible assets and goodwill; • negative financial impacts from (1) assumed claims or liabilities; (2) assumed costly or disruptive pre-existing contractual relationships; and (3) unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company’s business practices; • failure to identify or accurately assess significant liabilities or shortcomings prior to finalization of an acquisition; • failure to realize expected revenue growth from a strategic transaction for a number of reasons, including (1) more customers than expected declining to renew or terminating their contracts; (2) difficulty selling acquired products or service offerings to our customer base; (3) acquired customers declining to purchase our technologies due to differing business practices; or (4) contract models utilized by an acquired company conflicting with our revenue recognition methods; • integration difficulties, including aligning acquired compliance programs, technologies, products, services, supply chain operations, environmental practices or infrastructure with our existing lines of business; • product and service inconsistencies across multiple product lines or services offerings, leading to customer confusion and delays; • higher than anticipated costs related to supporting, developing and delivering acquired products or services, expanding general and administrative functions for new business models or complying with complex regulations applicable to an acquired business; • labor challenges, including difficulties obtaining timely approvals from works councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws; 23 Table of Contents • regulatory and judicial challenges, including delays or restrictions from governmental authorities under foreign direct investment, foreign subsidy, competition and antitrust laws, potentially requiring asset divestitures, other concessions or a termination of the acquisition process; • limitations on our potential other uses for our cash; and • financial constraints that may require us to incur additional debt to pay for acquisitions or delay or not proceed with an acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. We are subject to risks with respect to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters. We are subject to evolving, and sometimes conflicting, laws, executive orders, regulations, policies and stakeholder expectations relating to matters beyond our core products and services, including ESG matters, such as environmental sustainability, climate change, human capital and workforce matters. The Nomination and Governance Committee of our Board oversees and periodically reviews our ESG programs and our management evaluates if climate or environmental risks could significantly impact our core or strategic business functions, including service delivery and support, product development and deployment, supply chain management, facility operations, employee recruitment and retention or brand reputation. Any failure to identify and address these risks could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial performance and growth. Further, in an effort to be responsive to customer, employee and other stakeholder interests and expectations, we publicly disclose certain ESG-related goals and statistics. If we fail to meet these goals, or are perceived as failing to meet our ESG goals, our revenues, reputation and brand may be harmed. In addition, views on ESG and related matters diverge within and among different stakeholder groups, including stockholders, customers and employees, as well as government actors. Efforts to meet evolving and increasingly divergent stakeholder expectations on ESG and related matters may place a strain on our employees and systems, and if we are targeted by those who disagree with our public positions on ESG and related issues, or if we do not otherwise successfully manage ESG-related expectations across our stakeholders, it could erode stakeholder trust, impact our reputation or subject us to litigation, which could adversely affect our business and reputation. Data Privacy, Cybersecurity and Intellectual Property Risks We are subject to business, financial and reputational risks related to cybersecurity incidents and data breaches. Our products and services, including Oracle Cloud, store, retrieve, process and manage third-party data, such as our customers’ data, as well as our own data. We believe that Oracle has been and is a target for computer hackers, cyberattacks and other perpetrators or threat actors because Oracle stores and processes large amounts of data, including sensitive data such as health sciences (including patient health information), financial services, retail, hospitality, telecommunications and government data. We and our third-party vendors are regularly subject to attacks by third parties (which may include individuals or groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, such as state-sponsored organizations, nation-states and individuals sponsored by them) designed to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures, and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers’, partners’ and suppliers’ software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems. Such malicious attacks can lead, and have led, to the compromise of personal information or the confidential information or data of Oracle or our customers. Attacks of this nature typically involve IT-related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack networks, systems, products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of networks, systems, products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. Third parties seek to attempt to fraudulently induce customers, partners, employees or suppliers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other credentials to gain access to our data, our customers’, suppliers’ or partners’ data or the IT systems of Oracle, our customers, suppliers or partners. They also seek to access or modify improperly our products and services, including our Oracle Cloud; these actions can occur in a variety of ways, including as a result of customer, partner, employee, contractor or supplier error or malfeasance. When a cyberattack or other security event or incident results in unauthorized access to, or modification, loss, destruction or exfiltration of, our customers’ or suppliers’ data, other external data, our own data or our IT systems, or if the services we provide to our customers are disrupted, or if our products or services are reported to have (or are perceived as having) security vulnerabilities, we have incurred and may continue to incur significant expenses 24 Table of Contents and may suffer substantial damage to our brand and reputation. If our customers lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services, including our cloud offerings, they may reduce or terminate their spending with us. In addition, cyberattacks and other security events or incidents have resulted and could result in: significant investigation and remediation costs; loss or destruction of data; operational disruptions; inappropriate use of proprietary and sensitive data; lawsuits; indemnity obligations; regulatory investigations and financial penalties; and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs for customer notification and fraud monitoring. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or sabotage IT systems, constantly evolve, grow more complex over time, and often are not detected until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate measures to prevent such techniques. The increasing use of AI technologies may also introduce or accelerate existing cybersecurity and operational risks. AI systems may be susceptible to the introduction of malicious code, manipulation, or other misuse, and may be used by third parties to develop or deploy more sophisticated attacks. In addition, the rapid pace at which AI-related risks can emerge and evolve may challenge our ability to timely identify, assess and mitigate such risks. If we are unable to adapt our processes, controls and technologies effectively, our systems, data and operations could be adversely affected. Our internal IT systems continue to evolve and we are often early adopters of new technologies. However, our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with emerging threats. We may not detect or confirm any security breach and loss of information or fully remediate the impact for a significant period of time after the security breach. Our remediation efforts may not be successful. Our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on a wide variety of third-party products, components and services. If a security vulnerability exists in one of these components, a targeted exploit could lead to increased costs, liability claims, customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenues, or harm to our reputation or competitive position, including as a result of business interruption, data loss or unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, data. We also have an active acquisition, joint venture and strategic alliance program and have entered into a number of strategic transactions with respect to companies, products, services and technologies over the years. While we make significant efforts to address any IT security issues with respect to such companies, products, services and technologies, we may still face such risks and additional or unidentified vulnerabilities when we integrate such companies or partner with such third parties. Our business practices with respect to data could give rise to operational interruption, liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to privacy and data protection. As regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex and stringent, potential risks related to data collection and use within our business will intensify. In addition, U.S. federal and state as well as foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the near future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, partners and data providers, to collect, augment, analyze, use, transfer (including across national borders) and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services we provide. We are also subject to data privacy and other related regulations governing the healthcare industry and patient information, including but not limited to regulations governing electronic health data transmissions, the processing of patient information, healthcare fraud and healthcare information sharing. Following the European Union (EU)’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the rate of global consideration and adoption of privacy laws has increased, giving rise to more global jurisdictions in which regulatory inquiries and audits may be requested of Oracle, and if we are not deemed to be in compliance, could result in enforcement actions and/or fines. This is true in the U.S. where, for example, a number of states have enacted privacy laws, the U.S. Congress has been considering several privacy and security-related bills at the federal level, the federal government is pursuing a range of cybersecurity initiatives pertaining to critical infrastructure companies and government contractors, and a number of other state legislatures have passed or are considering privacy laws. Regulators globally are also imposing greater monetary fines for privacy violations. The GDPR provides for monetary penalties of up to €20 million, or up to 4% of an organization’s worldwide revenue of the preceding financial year, whichever is greater. These penalties can be significant. For example, a U.S.-based technology company was fined €1.2 billion for alleged GDPR violations in 2023. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission continues to fine companies for unfair and deceptive data protection practices, and these fines may increase in size. Taken together, the laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of personal and other types of data could greatly increase the size of potential fines related to data protection, and our cost of providing our products and services could result in changes to our business practices or even prevent us from offering certain services in jurisdictions in which we 25 Table of Contents operate. Although we have implemented contracts, diligence programs, policies and procedures designed to address compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, partners, suppliers, data providers or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our contracts, policies and procedures. Additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal information can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect our reputation or influence regulators to enact regulations and laws that may limit our ability to provide certain products and services. For example, numerous jurisdictions, including the EU, have passed or are considering laws and regulations that would impose additional data privacy and other compliance requirements on the use of AI and could require us to adjust or limit our product offerings in such jurisdictions. We make statements about our use and disclosure of personal information through our privacy policy, information provided on our website and press statements. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with these public statements or with U.S. federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, public perception, standards, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations, could result in lost or restricted business, proceedings, actions or fines brought against us or levied by governmental entities or others, or could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. Third parties have claimed, and in the future may claim, infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. We periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, third parties claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. These third parties include entities that do not design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property for the sole purpose of monetization through infringement assertions. We expect to continue to receive such claims as: • we continue to expand into new businesses and acquire companies; • the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; • the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; • the use of AI and support of LLMs becomes more prevalent in the industry; • the volume of issued patents continues to increase; and • non-practicing entities continue to assert intellectual property infringement in our industry segments. Responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: • be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; • divert management’s time and attention from developing our business; • require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; • require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; • require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; • require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or • otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property. Despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products or otherwise use our intellectual property. Our patents may be invalidated or circumvented. Any of our pending or future patent applications may not be issued with the claim scope we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of intellectual property protection as U.S. laws and courts. If we cannot protect our intellectual property against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. 26 Table of Contents Legal and Regulatory Risks Adverse litigation results could affect our business. We are subject to various legal proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and can divert our management’s attention away from running our core business. The results of our litigation also cannot be predicted with certainty. Even favorable judgments have been, and may in the future be, subject to appeals leading to protracted litigation, additional costs and the prospect that our desired outcome will be overturned. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. We may be subjected to increased taxes due to changes in U.S. or international tax laws, the inability to obtain or retain tax incentives, or from adverse resolutions of tax audits and controversies. As a multinational corporation, we incur income taxes as well as non-income-based taxes (such as payroll, sales, use, property and value-added taxes) in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. We also apply for and may obtain various U.S. state and local and foreign country income, property, sales and other tax incentives for infrastructure or other investments and business activities. Significant uncertainties exist with respect to the application of the various taxes to the businesses in which we engage and our intercompany transactions and arrangements, often requiring that we make judgments in determining our tax liabilities and worldwide provision for income taxes. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities in the U.S. and internationally, which has led to disagreements regarding our treatment of, or positions taken with respect to, various items, including foreign tax credits, foreign-earned profits, intercompany transfer prices and transactions, and the applicability of sales or use taxes or withholding taxes to our operations and intercompany transactions. Any unfavorable resolution of these tax audits and controversies, or the loss of any tax incentives obtained or anticipated, could cause our tax liabilities to increase and may have a material, adverse impact on our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate and on our business. Although we believe that our income and non-income-based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and tax accruals. The U.S. federal and state governments, as well as governments of countries around the world and organizations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), continually consider and make changes to relevant tax, accounting and other laws, treaties, regulations, guidance and interpretations. For example, countries outside the U.S. may change their tax laws in a manner that could negatively affect us by increasing taxes imposed on our international revenue streams, operations and cross-border transactions, including by imposing taxes targeted at digital technology businesses and changing their withholding tax rules. Further, certain governments and the OECD continue to consider the impacts of digital technologies and business models on the existing international tax framework and rules and may propose or enact changes to tax laws, treaties and guidance or introduce new tax measures that would increase the level of income or other taxes on our international revenues and profits. If U.S. or other tax authorities make any of such changes or successfully challenge how or where our profits are currently recognized, our overall tax liabilities could increase. Such possible unfavorable tax changes also create the potential for added volatility in our quarterly provision for income taxes. Our future income tax provisions and effective tax rate could materially increase as a result of tax changes such as those discussed above or if any other changes are made to applicable tax laws and rules in the U.S. or in other countries in which we do business. Our provision for income taxes also could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of income earned or losses incurred in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, fluctuations in our stock price and level of stock-based compensation expense, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities and by other factors. Our international sales and operations and global customer base subject us to additional risks, including trade restrictions, export controls and sanctions, that can adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the U.S., and in both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations we serve customers based in or with ties to numerous jurisdictions around the world. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, foreign currency-related regulations, competition/antitrust regulations, anti-bribery laws and other laws prohibiting payments to governmental officials such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), market access regulations, tariffs, and import, export and general trade regulations, including but not limited to sanctions and embargos. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in monetary fines, civil and/or criminal penalties, enforcement 27 Table of Contents actions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, including disgorgement, the loss of trade privileges, and other remedial measures. Any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries or territories or to certain entities, and any such violations (or even an allegation of violations) could result in us exiting a market or segment, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Changes to sanctions or export control regulations or their enforcement in the U.S. and the other jurisdictions where we currently operate or have dealings, or in the future may operate or have dealings, can require suspension or termination of business (including financial transactions) in or with certain countries and territories or with certain customers. In addition, we continue to closely monitor international relations and it is difficult to anticipate the effect geopolitical developments may have on us. Evolving restrictions and rules governing access to cloud-based infrastructure or GPU-enabled services by customers in certain jurisdictions, could require additional compliance controls or limit our ability to provide, lease, host or otherwise make available such resources to affected customers. Compliance with any further sanctions, export controls or other regulatory restrictions (and any countermeasures thereto) taken by the U.S. or other countries could prevent us from serving certain customers or restrict us or our customers from operating in specific jurisdictions, which could have an adverse effect on our operations and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and manage these risks. We monitor our operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. Where warranted, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities who may conduct their own investigations, and we respond to their requests or demands for information. No assurance can be given that such authorities will not take action or that our compliance program will prove effective. There is no guarantee that our compliance policies and procedures will be followed at all times or will effectively detect and prevent all violations of laws, including economic and financial sanction laws and embargoes. In addition, we are currently navigating a period of geopolitical and regulatory volatility. We face a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating globally, including those related to: • general economic conditions in each country or region; • political unrest, terrorism and war, including but not limited to the current Middle East conflicts and the Russia-Ukraine war and its potential economic and geopolitical impacts on Europe, where a material portion of our business is carried out; • the potential for other hostilities, including but not limited to further destabilization in the Middle East and Venezuela and tensions between China and Taiwan; • the potential for worsening trade and economic relations between the U.S. and China, including the imposition of additional tariffs, export controls, sanctions, retaliatory measures or other trade restrictions; • public health, social and supporting infrastructure stability risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts on customer demand and our operating results; • difficulties in accessing or transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries that could lead to a devaluation of our net assets, in particular our cash assets, in that country’s currency, including as a result of exchange controls, seizure, nationalization or other restrictions; • losses arising from bank failures, uninsured or underinsured deposit balances, fraud, theft, employee misconduct, or errors in initiating or processing payments or fund transfers; • regulatory changes, including unexpected government austerity measures in certain countries that may impair bank deposits or other cash assets that we hold in these countries or that impose additional taxes that we may be required to pay in these countries; • common local business behaviors or regulatory requirements that conflict with our business ethics, practices and conduct policies; • longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • overlapping tax regimes; and 28 Table of Contents • weaker protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact our supply chain operations and sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. As the majority shareholder of Oracle Financial Services Software Limited, a publicly traded company in India, and Oracle Corporation Japan, a publicly traded company in Japan, we face several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control that we would otherwise have if these entities were wholly-owned subsidiaries. The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and thus, we are subject to several laws, regulations and industry initiatives, non-compliance with certain of which could adversely affect our healthcare business. As a participant in the healthcare industry, certain of our products, operations and relationships, and those of our customers, are regulated by several U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities. These regulations impact us both directly and indirectly, including government program requirements applicable to our customers for the use of health IT. There are significant, wide-ranging and rapidly evolving regulations worldwide, covering healthcare fraud, information sharing, e-prescribing, medical claims processing and transmission, healthcare devices, the use of AI in healthcare, the security and privacy of patient data and interoperability standards, that may be directly or indirectly applicable to our products, operations and relationships or the business practices of our customers. Specific risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • We have medical devices registered with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other foreign medical device regulators, and certain other products and solutions may now or in the future be regulated under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act, as amended, and other foreign medical device laws. In instances where our healthcare products and services qualify as medical devices in countries where we do business, we could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing activities, including labeling, manufacturing, adverse event reporting and pre-market regulatory approval, clearance or notification. • Certified electronic health record technology (CEHRT) requirements continue to evolve and remain necessary to participate in federal healthcare programs to receive reimbursement for health items and services provided by certain of our customers to Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. Certification involves complex and specific requirements related to various types of requests for the access, exchange or use of Electronic Health Information. The 21st Century Cures Act, as amended, allows for penalties for stakeholders, including but not limited to, health IT developers and providers who do not comply with the act. We expect the regulations establishing the certification and interoperability standards for CEHRT will continue to be updated to emphasize interoperability, consumer engagement, patient safety and health information privacy and security. • The federal Anti-Kickback Statute (AKS) prohibits us from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration (including any kickback or price concession) in exchange for referrals or the purchase, order, or recommendation of any products or services which are paid for by federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services has stated that kickbacks have led to overutilization and increased costs of healthcare services, corruption of medical decision making, steering patients away from valid services or therapies and unfair, non-competitive service delivery. Certain of our products and services may now, or in the future, be subject to the AKS, the federal False Claims Act (FCA) and other fraud and abuse laws. In addition, a claim including products or services resulting from a violation of AKS constitutes a violation of the FCA. Companies can be held liable under the FCA even when they do not submit claims directly to government payors if they are deemed to “cause” the submission of false or fraudulent claims. The FCA also permits a private individual acting as a “whistleblower” to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging violations of the FCA and to share in any monetary recovery. The federal government has used the FCA to prosecute a wide variety of alleged false claims and fraud allegedly perpetrated against federal and state healthcare programs, including a variety of coverage, reimbursement, billing and coding errors, fraud and conduct. The healthcare industry is regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate concerning industry regulation. We have been, and in the future may become involved in routine, regular and special governmental inquiries, audits, reviews and assessments. Negative publicity may damage our reputation and expose us to regulatory scrutiny. 29 Table of Contents Complying with healthcare industry regulations globally is expensive and could subject us to unanticipated and significant delays or disruption to availability of our health products/services. If we fail to comply sufficiently with these and other regulations, it could negatively impact our ability to continue to develop, distribute and deliver certain of our healthcare products and services, and we could suffer fines or penalties and/or result in product recalls. Our sales to local, state, federal and foreign government customers expose us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, government shutdowns, procurement regulations, governmental policy shifts, early termination of contracts, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. We derive revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, state and local governments, and foreign governments and are subject to procurement laws relating to the award, administration and performance of those contracts. Governmental entities are variously pursuing policies that affect our ability to sell our products and services. Changes in government procurement policy, priorities, regulations, technology initiatives and/or requirements may negatively impact our potential for growth in the government sector. For example, the U.S. government imposes evolving cybersecurity requirements, including the FedRAMP authorization process and the Department of War (DoW) Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification. These requirements may impact our lines of business in the U.S. federal government market. Compliance with these cybersecurity requirements is complex and costly, and any failure or alleged failure to meet, or delays in meeting, the required security controls could result in liability, limit our ability to sell products and services, directly or indirectly, to the DoW and other federal and state government entities that implement similar cybersecurity requirements and adversely affect our reputation and sales. We are also subject to early termination of our contracts. Many governmental entities have the right to terminate contracts at any time for a variety of reasons, including without cause. For example, the U.S. federal government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts at its convenience, or for default based on our performance. U.S. federal, state and local government and foreign government contracts are generally subject to government funding authorizations/appropriations. Contracts may also be terminated due to a lack of government funds. There is increased pressure on governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending as governments continue to face significant deficit reduction pressures. This may adversely impact spending on government programs and result in termination of government contracts, delays in contract awards and pausing of payments during cost efficiency reviews. In addition, extended federal government shutdowns in the U.S. have caused, and may in the future cause, delays in approvals and decision making, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Government contracts laws and regulations impose certain risks, and certain of our government contracts and contracting practices are currently, and may in the future be, subject to audits and investigations. Any violations of law or alleged violations of law could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of fees received, treble damages, settlement payments, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business, as well as adverse publicity and reputational damage. Environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. Our cloud and hardware operations are subject to extensive, evolving and sometimes inconsistent state, federal and international regulations related to ESG matters. Some of these regulations establish specific metrics, targets, and disclosure frameworks for a variety of ESG issues, including environmental sustainability, supply chain labor practices, workforce health and safety, proper handling and disposal of certain chemicals and materials, and local testing and labeling requirements. Regulatory, market, carbon tax and competitive pressures regarding the greenhouse gas emissions and energy mix for our data center operations have increased and are expected to continue to increase. Compliance with these ever-changing and sometimes divergent ESG laws in a timely manner could increase our product design, development, procurement, manufacturing, delivery, cloud operations, insurance premiums and administration costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our cloud and hardware businesses. Failure to comply with these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products and services in certain regions. Additionally, new or updated regulated disclosure requirements could result in revisions to our previous ESG-related disclosure, which could expose us to liability or reputational harm. 30 Table of Contents Financial Risks Our operations can be difficult for us to predict because our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly based on a number of factors. Our revenues, particularly certain of our software license revenues and hardware revenues, can be difficult to forecast. A substantial portion of our software license and hardware contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter. Because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, sales and revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. We typically have a number of large transactions each quarter, which increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results. If our cloud infrastructure buildout takes longer than expected, our cloud revenue forecasts will be affected. If we lose one or more of our key customers for any reason, are unable to recognize revenues for contracted products or services or experience a delay in even a small number of these large transactions, our quarterly sales, revenues and profitability could fall significantly short of our predictions. In addition, sudden shifts in regional or global economic or political activity may cause our sales forecasts to be inaccurate. Our quarterly results may also be affected by changes in the timing and amount of our capital expenditures, which may vary materially from changes to supplier pricing, tariffs and supply chain and construction timelines. In addition, we hold a portfolio of marketable and non-marketable debt and equity investments. It may take longer than expected to realize the full economic benefits from these investments or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. Any impairment charges and effect of changes in the fair values of certain of these investments are recorded as unrealized gains or losses as a component of consolidated net income in each period. The timing and amount of impairment charges or changes in fair value, if any, of these investments depends on factors beyond our control, including regulatory risks, the perceived and actual performance of the companies or funds in which we invest, and are also subject to the general conditions of public and private equity markets, which are uncertain and have in the past varied, and may in the future vary, materially by period. Changes in the fair values of these investments have contributed, and may in the future contribute, to volatility in our net income that is not reflective of our core businesses. Changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect customer demand and our revenues and profitability. We conduct a significant number of transactions and hold cash in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Changes in the values of major foreign currencies, particularly the Australian Dollar, British Pound, Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar, Euro, Indian Rupee, Japanese Yen and Saudi Riyal, relative to the U.S. Dollar can significantly affect our total assets, revenues, operating results and cash flows, which are reported in U.S. Dollars. Fluctuations in foreign currency rates, including the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and most other major international currencies, adversely affects our revenue growth by reducing the U.S. Dollar value of our foreign currency earnings and affecting actual demand for our products and services as they may become relatively more expensive for foreign currency-based enterprises to purchase. Currency variations can also negatively impact profit margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the U.S. Generally, a stronger U.S. Dollar adversely affects, and a weaker U.S. Dollar favorably affects, our reported revenues and operating results. In addition, our reported assets generally are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies as a portion of our consolidated cash and bank deposits, among other assets, are held in foreign currencies and reported in U.S. Dollars. In addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged to earnings in the period incurred. We have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts designed to offset the risks associated with certain foreign currency exposures. We may suspend the program from time to time. As part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset at least in part by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in an effort to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. Our foreign currency forward contracts and other hedging activities may not fully offset, and may in some cases increase, the adverse financial effects of currency movements. A large portion of our consolidated operations is international, and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts, including the cost to obtain such contracts. For example, we experience foreign currency gains and losses when it is not possible or cost-effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures, our hedging efforts are ineffective or we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. Our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and any related fees paid to purchase such contracts, and other factors. 31 Table of Contents All of these factors can from time to time materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We have incurred foreign currency losses associated with the devaluation of currencies in certain highly inflationary economies relative to the U.S. Dollar. We could incur future losses in other countries where we do business should their currencies become designated as highly inflationary. There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. As of May 31, 2026, we had an aggregate of $129.5 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between calendar year 2026 and calendar year 2066. We may incur additional indebtedness from time to time to finance capital expenditures, future investments or acquisitions, to finance the payment of cash dividends on or repurchases of our common stock, to refinance existing debt or for other purposes. Future financing or funding needs could differ from our projections. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this Risk Factors section. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. The incurrence of additional indebtedness will also result in increased fixed obligations and increased interest expense and could also include covenants or other restrictions that may impede our ability to manage our operations. Some of our indebtedness may bear interest at variable rates, and increases in interest rates could increase our debt service obligations. In addition, changes in interest rates could adversely affect the economics of certain long-term commitments or customer arrangements, particularly where pricing is fixed or committed. We have been refinancing portions of our outstanding debt as it matures, and we may continue to do so in the future. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. More broadly, disruptions in credit markets, including reduced liquidity, changes in creditor sentiment or lender concentration limits, could increase our borrowing costs or limit our ability to access debt financing on acceptable terms, or at all. Should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our U.S. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. In addition, changes to our outlook or credit rating or a withdrawal by any rating agency could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on certain outstanding or future debt. A downgrade could also reduce our access to, or increase the cost of, commercial paper or other short-term financing, affect the terms or availability of certain long-term commitments (including data center leases), limit eligibility to contract with certain customers, and increase collateral, letter of credit or other credit support requirements under certain contractual arrangements. These risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If our accounting estimates and judgments turn out to be inaccurate, our future financial results could fall short of expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions that can affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates, judgments and assumptions on information available to us at the time that they are made, as discussed in “Critical Accounting Estimates” under Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in “Significant Accounting Policies” discussed in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. For example, we make certain judgments related to revenue recognition and remaining performance obligations. While we believe these judgments and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to uncertainties and actual results may differ. Risks Related to Our Common and Preferred Stock Our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. All of the factors discussed within this Risk Factors section have affected and could in the future affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market by us or by our competitors regarding new cloud services, AI advancements, products, product enhancements, technological advances, data center capacity, acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances or major transactions could also affect our stock price. Changes in the amounts and frequency of stock repurchases or dividends could affect our stock price. Our stock price could also be affected by factors, some 32 Table of Contents of which are beyond our control, including, among others: speculation in the press, social media and the analyst community; changes in recommendations or earnings-related estimates by financial analysts; changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock; negative analyst surveys or channel check surveys; earnings announcements where our financial results differ from our guidance or investors’ expectations; our credit ratings; dissemination of inaccurate information or misinformation about our business and results of operations (including through the malicious use of generative AI tools); the enforcement or non-enforcement of laws and regulations; and market trends unrelated to our performance. The stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. We are a named defendant, along with certain of our officers and a director, in a putative class action brought by an alleged stockholder that alleges various violations of securities laws in connection with a drop in our stock price. Additional information regarding this lawsuit is discussed under Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This litigation, and any future similar litigation, could expose us to substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Conversion of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (and our depositary shares), or the payment of dividends on Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock in shares of common stock, or the issuance of shares of our common stock under the ATM Program will dilute the ownership interest of the holders of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of our shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock and our depositary shares, or the payment of dividends on our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock in the form of common stock or the issuance of shares of our common stock under the ATM Program will dilute the ownership interest of the holders of our common stock and may depress the market price of our common stock. The ATM Program, the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock or our depositary shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and we cannot guarantee that our ATM Program will be fully implemented. The market price of our common stock is likely to be influenced by our ATM Program, the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock and our depositary shares. The market price of our common stock could become more volatile and could be depressed by: (1) investors’ anticipation of the potential sale or resale, as applicable, in the market of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock issued under the ATM Program or received upon conversion of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock or our depositary shares; (2) possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock or our depositary shares as a more attractive means of equity participation in us than owning shares of common stock; and (3) any hedging or arbitrage trading activity involving the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock or our depositary shares and our common stock. Our ATM Program may not be fully implemented. Disruptions in equity markets, including reduced liquidity or changes in investor sentiment, could limit our ability to access equity financing on acceptable terms, or at all. Our common stock ranks junior to our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and amounts payable in the event of our liquidation, winding-up or dissolution. This means that, unless accumulated dividends have been paid or set aside for payment on all our outstanding Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock through the most recently completed dividend period, no dividends may be declared or paid on our common stock, subject to limited exceptions. Likewise, in the event of our voluntary or involuntary liquidation, winding-up or dissolution, no distribution of our assets may be made to holders of our common stock until we have paid to holders of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock a liquidation preference equal to $100,000 per share plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. We cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. Our repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares. Further, our stock repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. Our stock repurchase program may not enhance long-term stockholder value. General Risks Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. 33 Table of Contents Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include: • general economic and business conditions; • overall demand for enterprise cloud, software and hardware products and services; • governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and • general legal, regulatory and political developments. Macroeconomic developments such as the global or regional economic effects resulting from elevated inflation and interest rates, limited liquidity, adverse developments affecting financial institutions, the current wars and conflicts, evolving trade policies between the U.S. and international trade partners, including the imposition of tariffs and other trade measures or restrictions, or the occurrence of similar events in other countries that lead to uncertainty or instability in economic, political or market conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition and outlook, which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. Any general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment of government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce or eliminate their IT budgets and spending, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. If any parties with whom we conduct business or invest our cash or cash equivalents are unable to meet their obligations to us, our business could be adversely affected. Bank failures or issues in the broader U.S. or global financial systems may have an impact on the broader capital markets and, in turn, our ability to access those markets. In addition, international, regional or domestic political unrest and the related potential impact on global stability, trade wars, terrorist attacks and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. These factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of software license, hardware and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for software support and our subscription-based cloud offerings. Significant events in certain geographic locations could adversely affect our operating results and disrupt our business. A significant portion of our critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas, some of which include emerging market international locations that may be less stable relative to running such business operations solely within the U.S. We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems, supply chains and processes could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, including some of our cloud offerings, and enabling a seamless customer experience with respect to our customer facing back-office processes. Although the Oracle Cloud is designed to automatically redirect traffic to an alternate facility, in the event of a severe impact to one facility, a major natural disaster, political, social or other disruption to infrastructure that supports our operations or other catastrophic event or the effects of climate change (such as increased storm severity, drought and pandemics) that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business operations, supply chains or IT systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolve d Staff Comments None. Item 1C. Cyb ersecurity Our overall information security risk management approach is designed to enable us to assess, identify and manage major risk exposures, including from material risks from cybersecurity threats, in a timely manner. As part of our information security risk management program, we perform risk assessments in which we map and prioritize information security risks identified through the processes described below. These assessments inform our information security risk management strategies and oversight processes and we view cybersecurity risks as one of the key risk categories we face. 34 Table of Contents We believe that Oracle is a target for computer hackers, cyber threats and other bad actors because our products and services store, retrieve, process and manage large amounts of data, including sensitive data. We and our vendors are regularly subject to attempts by third parties to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers’, partners’ and suppliers’ software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems. If a large scale cyberattack or other major security incident results in unauthorized access to or modification or exfiltration of a significant amount of our customers’ or suppliers’ data, other external data, our own data or our IT systems, or if the services we provide to our customers are disrupted, or if our products or services are reported to have (or are perceived as having) security vulnerabilities, we could incur significant expenses and suffer substantial damage to our brand and reputation, and this could result in a material impact on our business. Refer to “Data Privacy, Cybersecurity and Intellectual Property Risks” in Risk Factors included in Item 1A within this Annual Report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to cybersecurity risks. During fiscal 2026 , Oracle experienced cybersecurity incidents that, to date, have not had a material impact on our business, including our business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. Our corporate security and information security programs are designed to help us prevent, prepare for, detect, respond to and recover from cybersecurity threats. We leverage industry standard security frameworks to evaluate our security controls. Relevant personnel collaborate with subject matter experts throughout the process to identify and assess material cybersecurity threats, evaluate their severity, and explore ways to mitigate a potential security incident. We continually conduct security and privacy reviews to pinpoint risks associated with our products, services and enterprise. We also employ various monitoring tools to track suspicious or anomalous activity across our networks, systems, and data, and we simulate cyber threats to proactively address vulnerabilities. Finally, we routinely train our employees on cybersecurity matters. This program includes processes for triaging, assessing the severity of, escalating, containing, investigating and remediating information security events, as well as meeting legal obligations and minimizing customer impact and brand and reputational damage. In addition, we maintain insurance to protect against potential losses arising from a cybersecurity incident. Periodic tabletop exercises are conducted to test and reinforce our incident response controls, with incident severity and priority assessed on an ongoing basis. We also conduct external and internal risk management audits to assess and report on our internal incident response preparedness and help identify areas for continued focus and improvement. We conduct periodic penetration testing to identify vulnerabilities in our products, services, and systems. We also undergo security-related industry certifications and attestations by external auditors, including System and Organization Controls (SOC) 1, SOC 2, International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27001, 27017 and 27018, Cloud Security Alliance Security Trust Assurance and Risk (CSA STAR), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) and other compliance frameworks. Additionally, our vendor risk management program identifies and mitigates risks associated with third-party service providers, including those within our supply chain and those with access to our customer or employee data or systems. We use the findings from these and other processes to review our information security practices, procedures and technologies. Cybersecurity is an important area of focus for our Board. Our information security risk management program is designed to allow our Board to establish a mutual understanding with management of the effectiveness of our information security risk management practices and capabilities, including the division of responsibilities for reviewing our information security risk exposure and risk tolerance, tracking emerging information risks and ensuring proper escalation of certain key risks for periodic review by the Board of Directors and its committees. As part of its broader risk oversight activities, the Board oversees risks from cybersecurity risks, both directly and through the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board (the F&A Committee). As reflected in its charter, the F&A Committee assists the Board with the management and assessment of privacy and data security risk and is responsible for reviewing and discussing with management privacy and data security risk exposures , including, among other things, the potential impacts of those exposures on our business, financial results, operations and reputation. The F&A Committee also oversees our internal controls over financial reporting, including with respect to financial reporting-related information systems. 35 Table of Contents As an element of its information security risk management oversight activities, the F&A Committee reviews the results of our incident response control tests, external and internal audits and penetration testing and oversees our vendor risk management program. The F&A Committee also receives quarterly updates regarding cybersecurity matters from senior management. In turn, the F&A Committee reports to the full Board on a quarterly basis regarding the F&A Committee’s cybersecurity risk oversight activities. We also have Board members with expansive knowledge and expertise in the area of cybersecurity. In addition to these regularly scheduled updates, our Chief Privacy Officer and Senior Vice President, Oracle Security and Governance Risk Compliance may also report to the F&A Committee on how certain information security risks are being managed and progress towards agreed mitigation goals, as well as any potential material risks from cybersecurity threats that have been detected by the information security team. Jeppe Larsen, Senior Vice President, Oracle Security and Governance Risk Compliance is responsible for the day-to-day identification, assessment and management of the information security risks we face. Mr. Larsen has extensive experience in building and managing hyperscale cloud services, as well as overseeing security and risk management. Mr. Larsen has overseen cybersecurity matters at Oracle since 2023. He has been consequential in shaping our security and governance, risk, and compliance strategy related to cybersecurity, identity and encryption. Mr. Larsen holds a Master of Science degree in Applied Mathematics from the Technical University of Denmark and holds several U.S. patents. Our Senior Vice President, Oracle Security and Governance Risk Compliance is supported by team members who have relevant educational and industry experience. These team members provide regular reports to the Senior Vice President, Oracle Security and Governance Risk Compliance and work closely with our Chief Privacy Officer and include personnel dedicated to information security, product security, and physical security. Informed by the processes and practices discussed under “Risk Management and Strategy” above, team members escalate cybersecurity threats and incidents to the Senior Vice President, Oracle Security and Governance Risk Compliance who assesses the severity of such threats and incidents for inclusion in quarterly update to the F&A Committee where appropriate. In addition to the ordinary-course Board and F&A Committee reporting and oversight described above, we also maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed for prompt reporting to the Board and timely public disclosure, as appropriate, of material events covered by our risk management framework, including cybersecurity risks. Item 2. Pro perties Our properties consist of owned and leased facilities for cloud operations, sales, support, research and development, services, manufacturing and administrative and other functions. Our headquarters facility consists of approximately 0.9 million square feet in Austin, Texas, all of which we own. We also own or lease office facilities for current use consisting of approximately 25.4 million square feet in various other locations in the U.S. and abroad. Approximately 11.9 million square feet, or 45%, of our total owned and leased office facilities are sublet or are being actively marketed for sublease or disposition. We lease our principal internal manufacturing facility for our hardware products in Hillsboro, Oregon. Additionally, we have approximately 181 data center locations globally, substantially all of which are leased and used to deliver our Oracle Cloud offerings. We believe that our facilities are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. Item 3. Leg al Proceedings The material set forth in Note 12 (pertaining to information regarding contingencies related to our income taxes) and Note 15 (pertaining to information regarding legal contingencies) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. M ine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 36 Table of Contents