{"sectionMethod":"fallback_60pct","plainTextLength":1399068,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
shel-20251231 UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 Form 20-F (Mark one) ☐ REGISTRATION STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OR (g) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 OR ☑ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 31 , 2025 OR ☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 OR ☐ SHELL COMPANY REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Commission file number 001-32575 Shell plc (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) England and Wales (Jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) Shell Centre London , SE1 7NA United Kingdom (Address of principal executive offices) Sean Ashley, Company Secretary Shell Centre London , SE1 7NA United Kingdom Telephone Number: 0044-20 - 7934-1234 E-mail Address: sean.ashley@shell.com (Name, Telephone, E-mail and/or Facsimile number and Address of Company Contact Person) 1 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act Title of Each Class Trading Symbols Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered American Depositary Shares representing two ordinary shares with a nominal value of €0.07 each SHEL New York Stock Exchange Ordinary shares with a nominal value of €0.07 each New York Stock Exchange * 2.5% Guaranteed Notes due 2026 SHEL/26 New York Stock Exchange 2.875% Guaranteed Notes due 2026 SHEL/26A New York Stock Exchange 3.875% Guaranteed Notes due 2028 SHEL/28 New York Stock Exchange 2.375% Guaranteed Notes due 2029 SHEL/29 New York Stock Exchange 2.375% Guaranteed Notes due 2029 SHEL/29A New York Stock Exchange 2.75% Guaranteed Notes due 2030 SHEL/30 New York Stock Exchange 2.750% Guaranteed Notes due 2030 SHEL/30A New York Stock Exchange 4.125% Guaranteed Notes due 2030 SHEL/30B New York Stock Exchange Floating Rate Guaranteed Notes due 2030 SHEL/30C New York Stock Exchange 4.125% Guaranteed Notes due 2035 SHEL/35 New York Stock Exchange 4.125% Guaranteed Notes due 2035 SHEL/35A New York Stock Exchange 4.750% Guaranteed Notes due 2036 SHEL/36 New York Stock Exchange 6.375% Guaranteed Notes due 2038 SHEL/38 New York Stock Exchange 5.5% Guaranteed Notes due 2040 SHEL/40 New York Stock Exchange 2.875% Guaranteed Notes due 2041 SHEL/41 New York Stock Exchange 3.625% Guaranteed Notes due 2042 SHEL/42 New York Stock Exchange 4.55% Guaranteed Notes due 2043 SHEL/43 New York Stock Exchange 4.550% Guaranteed Notes due 2043 SHEL/43A New York Stock Exchange 4.375% Guaranteed Notes due 2045 SHEL/45 New York Stock Exchange 4.375% Guaranteed Notes due 2045 SHEL/45A New York Stock Exchange 3.75% Guaranteed Notes due 2046 SHEL/46 New York Stock Exchange 4.00% Guaranteed Notes due 2046 SHEL/46A New York Stock Exchange 4.000% Guaranteed Notes due 2046 SHEL/46B New York Stock Exchange 3.750% Guaranteed Notes due 2046 SHEL/46C New York Stock Exchange 3.125% Guaranteed Notes due 2049 SHEL/49 New York Stock Exchange 3.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2050 SHEL/50 New York Stock Exchange 3.250% Guaranteed Notes due 2050 SHEL/50A New York Stock Exchange 3.00% Guaranteed Notes due 2051 SHEL/51 New York Stock Exchange * Not for trading, but only in connection with the registration of the American Depositary Shares issued in respect thereof, pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: none Securities for which there is a reporting obligation pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Act: none Indicate the number of outstanding shares of each of the issuer's classes of capital or common stock as of the close of the period covered by the annual report. Outstanding as of December 31, 2025: 5,689,891,670 ordinary shares with a nominal value of €0.07 each. 2 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. þ Yes ☐ No If this report is an annual or transition report, indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. ☐ Yes þ No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. þ Yes ☐ No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). þ Yes ☐ No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or an emerging growth company. See definition of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Large accelerated filer þ Accelerated filer ☐ Non-accelerated filer ☐ Emerging growth company ☐ If an emerging growth company that prepares its financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards† provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐ † The term "new or revised financial accounting standards" refers to any update issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board to its Accounting Standards Codification after April 5, 2012. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. þ If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐ Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐ Indicate by check mark which basis of accounting the registrant has used to prepare the financial statements included in this filing: U.S. GAAP ☐ International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. þ Other ☐ If "Other" has been checked in response to the previous question, indicate by check mark which financial statement item the registrant has elected to follow. Item 17 ☐ Item 18 ☐ If this is an annual report, indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). ☐ Yes þ No Copies of notices and communications from the Securities and Exchange Commission should be sent to: Shell plc Shell Centre London, SE1 7NA United Kingdom Attn:Sean Ashley 3 Shell Form 20-F 2025 TABLE OF CONTENTS Cover 1 Cross reference to Form 20-F 8 Terms and abbreviations 10 About this Report 11 Chair's message 13 Chief Executive Officer's review 15 Shell's strategy 17 This is Shell 17 Our strategy 20 Risk factors and risk management 23 Performance in the year 33 Performance indicators 33 More value 35 Group Results 36 Liquidity and capital resources 38 Market overview 42 Integrated Gas 45 Upstream 52 Oil and gas information 61 Marketing 69 Chemicals and Products 74 Renewables and Energy Solutions 81 Corporate 86 Innovation and Technology 87 Less emissions 89 Shell and the energy transition 90 Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition 104 Other regulatory disclosures 116 Our Foundations 118 Our approach to sustainability 119 Safety 126 Our people 129 Our contribution to society 133 Environment 135 Living by our values 138 The Board of Shell plc 140 Executive Committee 146 5 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Board Activities 148 Governance framework 149 Nomination and Succession Committee 154 Sustainability Committee 157 Audit and Risk Committee Report 159 Directors' Remuneration Report 169 Annual Report on Remuneration 176 Directors' Remuneration Policy 193 Other regulatory and statutory information 200 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (ID: 1438 ) 211 Consolidated Statement of Income 214 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 214 Consolidated Balance Sheet 215 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 216 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 217 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 218 1. Basis of preparation 218 2. Material accounting policies, judgements and estimates 218 3. Changes to IFRS not yet adopted 228 4. Climate change and energy transition 228 5. Emission schemes and related environmental plans 240 6. Capital management 242 7. Segment information 243 8. Operating Revenues 251 9. Interest and other income 252 10. Interest expense 252 11. Goodwill and other Intangible assets 252 12. Property, plant and equipment 253 13. Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets 255 14. Joint ventures and associates 258 15. Investments in securities 259 16. Trade and other receivables 259 17. Inventories 260 18. Cash and cash equivalents 260 19. Assets held for sale 261 20. Trade and other payables 261 21. Debt 262 22. Leases 264 6 Shell Form 20-F 2025 23. Taxation 265 24. Retirement benefits 268 25. Decommissioning and other provisions 275 26. Financial instruments 276 27. Share capital 283 28. Share-based compensation plans and shares held in trust 283 29. Other reserves 284 30. Dividends 286 31. Earnings per share 286 32. Legal proceedings and other contingencies 286 33. Employees 289 34. Directors and Senior Management 289 35. Auditor's remuneration 290 36. Post-balance sheet events 290 Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited) 291 Supplementary information – EU Taxonomy disclosure 310 Shareholder information 317 Section 13(r) of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 disclosure 322 Non-GAAP measures reconciliations and Operational measures 323 Index to the exhibits 324 Signatures 325 Financial calendar 326 7 Shell Form 20-F 2025 CROSS REFERENCE TO FORM 20-F Part I Pages Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers N/A Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable N/A Item 3. Key Information A. [Reserved] B. Capitalization and indebtedness N/A C. Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds N/A D. Risk factors 23-30 Item 4. Information on the Company A. History and development of the company 12-22, 35-88, 105-128, 317 B. Business overview 13-30, 33-34, 45-88, 118-139, 291-309 C. Organizational structure 19, Exhibit 8.1 D. Property, plants and equipment 23-30, 35-37, 45-88, 126-128, 135-137, 291-309 Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments N/A Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects A. Operating results 23-30, 36-41, 45-88, 276-288 B. Liquidity and capital resources 38-41, 45-46, 52, 53, 69-70, 74-75, 81-82, 86, 218-228, 242, 252-265 C. Research and development, patents and licences, etc. 14, 87, 102, 214, 219, 244-246 D. Trend information 20-30, 33-60, 69-88, 89-138 E. Critical Accounting Estimates N/A Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees A. Directors and senior management 140-147, 203-205 B. Compensation 169-176, 178-192, 289 C. Board practices 31-32, 140-192, 200-210 D. Employees 129-132, 289 E. Share ownership 132, 148, 186-187, 202, 283-284, 317 F. Disclosure of a registrant's action to recover erroneously awarded compensation N/A Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions A. Major shareholders 318 B. Related party transactions 210, 258, 289 C. Interests of experts and counsel N/A Item 8. Financial Information A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information 40-41, 200, 211-290 B. Significant Changes 290 Item 9. The Offer and Listing A. Offer and listing details 317 B. Plan of distribution N/A C. Markets 317 D. Selling shareholders N/A E. Dilution N/A F. Expenses of the issue N/A Item 10. Additional Information A. Share capital N/A B. Memorandum and articles of association 203-210 C. Material contracts N/A D. Exchange controls 319 E. Taxation 319-321 8 Shell Form 20-F 2025 F. Dividends and paying agents N/A G. Statement by experts N/A H. Documents on display 12 I. Subsidiary Information N/A J. Annual Report to Security Holders See Form 6-K, furnished March 12, 2026 Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 38, 225-227, 259, 276-282 Item 12. Description of Securities Other than Equity Securities A. Debt Securities Exhibit 2.6 B. Warrants and Rights N/A C. Other Securities N/A D. American Depositary Shares 317-319, Exhibit 2.6 Part II Item 13. Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies N/A Item 14. Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds N/A Item 15. Controls and Procedures 200, 213 Item 16. [Reserved] Item 16A. Audit committee financial expert 160 Item 16B. Code of Ethics 202 Item 16C. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 168 Item 16D. Exemptions from the Listing Standards for Audit Committees 202-203 Item 16E. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers 40-41, 200 Item 16F. Change in Registrant's Certifying Accountant 168, Exhibit 16.1 Item 16G. Corporate Governance 202-210 Item 16H. Mine Safety Disclosure N/A Item 16I. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections N/A Item 16J. Insider trading policies 202, Exhibits 11.1, 11.2 and 11.3 Item 16K. Cybersecurity 28, 87-88 Part III Item 17. Financial Statements N/A Item 18. Financial Statements 211-290 Item 19. Exhibits 329 9 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Terms and abbreviations Currencies $ US dollar € euro £ sterling Units of measurement acre approximately 0.004 square kilometres b(/d) barrels (per day) bbl barrel boe(/d) barrels of oil equivalent (per day); natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel GJ gigajoule GW gigawatt kboe(/d) thousand barrels of oil equivalent (per day); natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel kWh kilowatt-hours mb/d million barrels per day megajoule a unit of energy equal to one million joules MMBtu million British thermal units mtpa million tonnes per annum MW megawatt MWh megawatt-hours Nm3 normal cubic metre per day volumes are converted into a daily basis using a calendar year scf(/d) standard cubic feet (per day) TWh terawatt-hours Products GTL gas-to-liquids LNG liquefied natural gas LPG liquefied petroleum gas NGL natural gas liquids Miscellaneous Act UK Companies Act 2006 ADS American Depositary Share AGM Annual General Meeting API American Petroleum Institute APM Alternative performance measure ARC Audit and Risk Committee CAGR Compound annual growth rate CCS carbon capture and storage CCS earnings earnings on a current cost of supplies basis CFFO cash flow from operating activities CISO Chief Information Security Officer CMD Capital Markets Day CMF carbon management framework CO 2 carbon dioxide CO 2 e carbon dioxide equivalent CRC Carbon Reporting Committee CSRD Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive DE&I Diversity, equity, and inclusion EBITDA Earnings Before Interest Taxes Depreciation and Amortization EC Executive Committee EMTN Euro medium-term note EPS earnings per share ESRS European Sustainability Reporting Standards ETS24 Energy Transition Strategy 2024 EV Electric vehicle FPI Fatality and Permanent Impairments FCF free cash flow FID final investment decision GAAP generally accepted accounting principles GHG greenhouse gas HSSE health, safety, security and environment IAS International Accounting Standards IEA International Energy Agency IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard(s) IOGP International Association of Oil & Gas Producers IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Ipieca International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association ISSB International Sustainability Standards Board KPI Key performance indicator LGBT+ Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender LTIP Long-term Incentive Plan NBS Nature-Based Solutions NCI net carbon intensity NGO Non-governmental organisation NOV Non-operated venture NOMCO Nomination and Succession Committee NZE Net zero emissions OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OML oil mining lease OP 25 Operating Plan 2025 OPEC Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC+ 12 members of the OPEC and 11 other non-OPEC members OPL oil prospecting licence PSC production-sharing contract PSP Performance Share Plan R&D Research and development REMCO Remuneration Committee RNG Renewable natural gas RT real terms SEAM Safety, Environment and Asset Management SEC US Securities and Exchange Commission SGBP Shell General Business Principles SIAI Shell Internal Audit and Investigations SP social performance SUSCO Sustainability Committee TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TSR total shareholder return WACC weighted average cost of capital Indicates information that supports TCFD disclosure 10 Shell Form 20-F 2025 About this Report This Form 20-F as filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission for the year ended December 31, 2025 (this "Report") presents the Consolidated Financial Statements of Shell plc (the "Company") and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as "Shell") (pages 214-290). Except for these Financial Statements, the numbers presented throughout this Report may not sum precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures due to rounding. Cross-references to Form 20-F are set out on pages 8-9 of this Report. The Consolidated Financial Statements of Shell plc and its subsidiaries contained in this Report have been prepared in accordance with international accounting standards in conformity with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 (the "Act"), and therefore in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. As applied to Shell, there are no material differences from International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB); therefore, the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. IFRS as defined above includes interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee. Financial reporting terms used in this Report are in accordance with IFRS. This Report contains certain forward-looking non-GAAP measures such as free cash flow and underlying operating expense. We are unable to provide a reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures because certain information needed to reconcile those non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures is dependent on future events some of which are outside the control of Shell, such as oil and gas prices, interest rates and exchange rates. Moreover, estimating such GAAP measures with the required precision necessary to provide a meaningful reconciliation is extremely difficult and could not be accomplished without unreasonable effort. Non-GAAP measures in respect of future periods which cannot be reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are calculated in a manner which is consistent with the accounting policies applied in Shell plc's consolidated financial statements. The companies in which Shell plc directly and indirectly owns investments are separate legal entities. In this report "Shell", "Shell Group" and "Group" are sometimes used for convenience to reference Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general. Likewise, the words "we", "us" and "our" are also used to refer to Shell plc and its subsidiaries in general or to those who work for them. These terms are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying the particular entity or entities. "Subsidiaries", "Shell subsidiaries" and "Shell companies" as used in this report refer to entities over which Shell plc either directly or indirectly has control. The terms "joint venture", "joint operations", "joint arrangements", and "associates" may also be used to refer to a commercial arrangement in which Shell has a direct or indirect ownership interest with one or more parties. The term "Shell interest" is used for convenience to indicate the direct and/or indirect ownership interest held by Shell in an entity or unincorporated joint arrangement, after exclusion of all third-party interest. As used in this Report, "Accountable" is intended to mean: required or expected to justify actions or decisions. The Accountable person does not necessarily implement the action or decision (implementation is usually carried out by the person who is Responsible) but must organise the implementation and verify that the action has been carried out as required. This includes obtaining requisite assurance from Shell companies that the framework is operating effectively. "Responsible" is intended to mean: required or expected to implement actions or decisions. Each Shell company and Shell-operated venture is responsible for its operational performance and compliance with the Shell General Business Principles, Code of Conduct, Statement on Risk Management and Risk Manual, and Standards and Manuals. This includes responsibility for the operationalisation and implementation of Shell Group strategies and policies. Shell's "net carbon intensity" referred to in this Report includes Shell's carbon emissions from the production of our energy products, our suppliers' carbon emissions in supplying energy for that production, and our customers' carbon emissions associated with their use of the energy products we sell. Shell's NCI also includes the emissions associated with the production and use of energy products produced by others which Shell purchases for resale. Shell only controls its own emissions. The use of the terms Shell's "net carbon intensity" or NCI is for convenience only and not intended to suggest these emissions are those of Shell plc or its subsidiaries. Shell's operating plan and outlook are forecasted for a three year period and 10-year period, respectively, and are updated every year. They reflect the current economic environment and what we can reasonably expect to see over the next three and ten years. Accordingly, the outlook reflects our Scope 1, Scope 2 and NCI targets over the next 10 years. However, Shell's operating plan and outlook cannot reflect our 2050 net-zero emissions target, as this target is outside our planning period. Such future operating plans and outlooks could include changes to our portfolio, efficiency improvements and the use of carbon capture and storage and carbon credits. In the future, as society moves towards net-zero emissions, we expect Shell's operating plans and outlooks to reflect this movement. However, if society is not net zero in 2050, as of today, there would be significant risk that Shell may not meet this target. Except where indicated, the figures shown in the tables in this Report are in respect of subsidiaries only, without deduction of any non-controlling interest. However, the term "Shell share" is used for convenience to refer to the volumes of hydrocarbons that are produced, processed or sold through subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. All of a subsidiary's production, processing or sales volumes (including the share of joint operations) are included in the Shell share, even if Shell owns less than 100% of the subsidiary. In the case of joint ventures and associates, however, Shell-share figures are limited only to Shell's entitlement. In all cases, royalty payments in kind are deducted from the Shell share. Except where indicated, the figures shown in this Report are stated in US dollars. As used herein all references to "dollars" or "$" are to the US currency. This Report contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) concerning the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of Shell. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements of future expectations that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements concerning the potential exposure of Shell to market risks and statements expressing management's expectations, beliefs, estimates, forecasts, projections and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as "aim", "ambition", "anticipate", "aspire", "aspiration", "believe", "commit", "commitment", "could", "desire", "estimate", "expect", "goals", "intend", "may", "milestones", "objectives", "outlook", "plan", "probably", "project", "risks", "schedule", "seek", "should", "target", "vision", "will", "would" and similar terms and phrases. There are a number of factors that could affect the future operations of Shell and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this Report, including (without limitation): (a) price fluctuations in crude oil and natural gas; (b) changes in demand for Shell's products; (c) currency fluctuations; (d) drilling and production results; (e) reserves estimates; (f) loss of market share and industry competition; (g) environmental and physical risks, including climate change; (h) risks associated with the identification of suitable potential acquisition properties and targets, and successful negotiation and completion of such transactions; (i) the risk of doing business in developing countries and countries subject to international sanctions; (j) legislative, judicial, fiscal and regulatory developments including tariffs and regulatory measures addressing climate change; (k) economic and financial market conditions in various countries and regions; (l) political risks, including the risks of expropriation and renegotiation of 11 Shell Form 20-F 2025 About this Report continued the terms of contracts with governmental entities, delays or advancements in the approval of projects and delays in the reimbursement for shared costs; (m) risks associated with the impact of pandemics, regional conflicts, such as the Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in the Middle East, and a significant cyber security, data privacy or IT incident; (n) the pace of the energy transition; and (o) changes in trading conditions. Also see "Risk factors and risk management" on page 23-32 for additional risks and further discussion. No assurance is provided that future dividend payments will match or exceed previous dividend payments. All forward-looking statements contained in this Report are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. Readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this Report. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a result of new information, future events or other information. In light of these risks, results could differ materially from those stated, implied or inferred from the forward-looking statements contained in this Report. Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance. This Report contains references to Shell's website, the Shell Energy Transition Strategy 2024 Report, Tax Contribution Report, Shell Climate and Energy Transition Lobbying Report and our report on Payments to Governments. These references are for the readers' convenience only. Shell is not incorporating by reference into this Report any information posted on shell.com or in the Shell Energy Transition Strategy 2024 Report, Tax Contribution Report, Shell Climate and Energy Transition Lobbying Report or our report on Payments to Governments. The content of any other websites referred to in this Report does not form part of this Report. Shell V-Power and Shell LiveWire are Shell trademarks. Documents on display The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. All of the SEC filings made electronically by Shell are available to the public on the SEC website at sec.gov (commission file number 001-32575). This Report is also available, free of charge, at shell.com/investors/financial-reporting/sec-filings or at the offices of Shell in London, United Kingdom and The Hague, the Netherlands. Copies of this Report also may be obtained, free of charge, by mail. 12 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report Chair's message Shell provides energy, directly or indirectly, to around a billion people every year. That number speaks not only to our reach, but also our role in connecting people with the energy they need. As Chief Executive Officer, Wael Sawan has continued to embed a focus on performance, discipline and simplification across Shell. This has translated into stronger operational performance, greater discipline in capital allocation, and more clarity about where we create value. This approach has supported attractive shareholder returns: in the three years to the end of 2025, we have outperformed our peers in terms of total shareholder return [A]. In 2025, we distributed 52% of cash flow from operations to shareholders through our dividends and share buybacks, as we continue to grow value per share. Today, Shell continues to become more competitive and resilient — and better positioned to create value and help provide the energy people need in a world that has become more fragmented and complex. Our changing world A renewed focus on energy security has brought with it a broader recognition that oil and gas will still represent a significant part of the global energy system for decades to come. At Shell, we continue to invest in helping to provide secure supplies of energy with projects like Orca in Brazil, formerly called Gato do Mato, and our multiple production hubs in the Gulf of America. [A] See page 181 in the "Annual Report on Remuneration" for more information. Our task is to manage oil and gas production responsibly and competitively, with a focus on reducing the emissions from our operations. We also believe that gas, including LNG, can play a vital role through the energy transition — as a flexible and reliable lower-carbon alternative to coal in power generation and industry, as a solution for heavy-duty transport and shipping, and as a complement to renewables, helping balance grids as wind and solar scale. June 2025 saw the first cargo from the new LNG Canada facility. It was a proud moment for Shell and our partners, not only because of its significant technical achievements, but because it was designed to be among the lowest carbon intensity LNG facilities in the world — with many cargoes going to meet growing energy demand in Asia. At the same time, climate change remains a real challenge. We have a target to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050, and we are committed to playing our part in helping to decarbonise the global energy system. Low-carbon energy options are advancing on multiple tracks. Technologies such as wind and solar are now well established, while others — including biofuels like sustainable aviation fuel, renewable hydrogen and carbon capture and storage (CCS) — will be best able to scale if policy frameworks develop, markets evolve and demand builds. Even as the energy mix changes, overall demand continues to grow. Moving from a global energy system built on coal, oil and gas to one that is increasingly electrified means redesigning the infrastructure that underpins modern life. We must change how we power industry, heat homes, move people and goods, build cities and balance grids. Despite these challenging objectives, there is progress to point to. In October, I visited China where I saw the pace of electrification for myself. I met Shell colleagues and partners engaged in that effort, scaling up electric vehicle infrastructure and working alongside many of China's leading industrial players. Taken together, these developments illustrate an energy transition that is under way, but far from uniform. Countries are advancing from very different starting points, shaped by their resources, infrastructure and energy needs. Even as energy systems change, global economic growth depends on supply that is available, reliable and delivered at scale. Our role in the energy transition In this context, Shell's Board has a clear fiduciary responsibility to promote the long-term success of the company, including through competitive returns to our shareholders. For Shell, fulfilling that responsibility means pursuing investments that help us outperform the competition and increase returns — all within the reality that there is only a finite pool of money investors are willing to commit to the energy system. 13 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Chair's message continued As a result, Shell maintains flexibility across emerging technologies so that if conditions strengthen and markets mature, we are well positioned to compete. We focus on where we can make a difference at scale, where we have competitive advantage, and where we can deliver value for our shareholders. It was through this lens that we took the decision in September 2025 not to restart construction of our planned biofuels plant in Rotterdam. We have also seen what is possible when the right conditions come together. In August 2025, we marked the first injection of CO 2 at the Northern Lights project in Norway — Europe's flagship cross-border carbon transport and storage development and a milestone many years in the making. It shows what can be achieved when governments provide stable policy frameworks, industry brings world-class engineering and investment, and customer demand is aligned. At our Capital Markets Day 2023, we said we would invest $10--15 billion in low-carbon energy solutions between 2023 and 2025, which we have delivered on. In 2025, we also spent almost $500 million on research and development projects that aim to contribute to decarbonisation, representing about 41% of our total research and development expenditure. Shell began life as a trading company more than a century ago. Visiting Trading and Supply colleagues in Rotterdam in December, it was great to see how we are using that capability to deliver biofuels and power, as well as oil and gas. Trading is not simply one activity within Shell; it sits at the heart of our integrated model. Our culture That ability to operate as a truly integrated global organisation is one of Shell's defining strengths today — and will matter even more in the years ahead. But integration ultimately depends on people, and as I visited colleagues around the globe in 2025 — from our Board offsite in Australia to meeting colleagues in China and the Netherlands — I saw the operational excellence of our people in action. Being a global business — with a workforce that spans continents — makes us naturally diverse. We remain committed to being a place where everyone feels valued and respected, wherever they are. Employee engagement has remained steady — a reflection of both the scale of change and the resilience of our people — and we recognise there is more to do to strengthen connection, build trust, and ensure our colleagues feel part of Shell's ongoing transformation through 2026 and beyond. Our confidence In 2026, we expect energy demand to keep growing, the pace of the transition to remain uncertain — and signals from governments, markets and customers may not always align. But I am confident in Shell's ability to thrive because of the steps our people have taken to embed performance, discipline and simplification. These principles have made our organisation more competitive and resilient. Shell enters 2026 as a leaner, stronger and more confident organisation. That confidence does not come from assuming the world will become easier. It comes from the culture our people bring to life every day and the foundations that position Shell to navigate the years ahead and deliver more value with less emissions in a changing energy system. Sir Andrew Mackenzie Chair 1. Board and Executive Committee visit, Australia, 2025. 2. LNG tanker, Canada, 2025. 3. Mars platform with Olympus in the distance, Gulf of America, 2025. 14 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report Chief Executive Officer's review 2025 at a glance 2.1 62 Fatality and permanent impairment frequency (FPI-F) in Shell-operated ventures (2024: 1.7) [A] Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety incidents (2024: 89) [B] $18.1 billion $18.5 billion Income for the period Adjusted Earnings* (2024: $16.5) (2024: $23.7) $42.9 billion $26.1 billion Cash flow from operating activities (2024: $54.7) Free cash flow* (2024: $39.5) $18.9 billion $20.9 billion Capital expenditure Cash capital expenditure (2024: $19.6) (2024: $21.1) $13.9 billion $8.5 billion Share buyback programme Dividends paid (2024: $13.9) (2024: $8.7) 53 million tonnes 71 gCO 2 e/MJ Scope 1 and 2 emissions CO 2 e Net carbon intensity (NCI) (2024: 58) (2024: 71) Key performance indicators. See pages 33-34. [A] FPI-F for 2024 has been revised from 1.5 to 1.7. See safety performance on page 128. [B] Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety incidents for 2024 has been revised from 90 to 89. See safety performance on page 128. We are in a world defined by more uncertainty -- from increasingly fragmented geopolitics, to the rapid rise of artificial intelligence and the pressures of climate change. Energy sits at the heart of this changing world, highlighting the critical role of our sector. As I write this message, amid the turmoil of the conflict in the Middle East, we feel that critical role more than ever. We are focusing first and foremost on the safety and well-being of our colleagues. I would like to thank all our staff for their professionalism, commitment and the care they continue to show for each other. Shell has an important role to play in the evolving energy system. We provide the oil and gas people need today, including liquefied natural gas (LNG). We are also helping to build the energy system of the future, with low-carbon energy products and solutions. We are transforming into a more competitive and resilient business so that we are in the best possible position to support the around a billion people we serve, directly or indirectly, every year. We are building trust in Shell as the investment case and partner of choice in a complex and changing world. At the heart of Shell's transformation is our focus on performance, discipline and simplification. We are embedding this focus across our organisation, from the way we make investment decisions to how we reshape our retail network and maintain our oil and gas platforms, improving reliability and production. More value with less emissions I am proud of how far we have come with our strategy to deliver more value with less emissions, and grateful for the commitment and hard work of everyone at Shell through a time of considerable change. We set out to build a strong track record of performance, and we have done just that. In 2025, we delivered on the financial targets that we set out at our Capital Markets Day 2023 and, as a result, we set more ambitious financial targets at our Capital Markets Day 2025. We reached $5.1 billion in structural cost reductions by the end of 2025, compared with 2022, three years ahead of our target, with more to come. We are on track to achieve our target to grow normalised free cash flow per share* by more than 10% per year [C] through to 2030, underpinned by the growth we expect from our Integrated Gas and LNG, Upstream and Marketing businesses, as well as the steps we are taking to turn around underperforming capital investment. We saw that growth reflected in our 2025 performance. Our LNG sales increased by 11%, with a record number of LNG cargoes, supporting our aim of a 4--5% increase per year to 2030 [C]. Our Mobility and Lubricants businesses also produced their best-ever results, amid rising demand for premium products. 15 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Chief Executive Officer's review continued At the same time, we continued to invest in the long-term strength of our Upstream portfolio. We increased our interests across our leading deep-water portfolio in the Gulf of America, Brazil and Nigeria, and invested in oil and gas exploration to expand our core positions and secure potential new opportunities. In 2025, we delivered shareholder distributions at the top end of our target of 40--50% of cash flow from operations* through the cycle [D]. We ended the year with one of the strongest balance sheets in our industry, putting us in a good position for counter-cyclical opportunities. We are making solid progress towards our climate-related targets and ambition. By the end of 2025, we had achieved around 70% of our target to halve our Scope 1 and 2 operational emissions by 2030, compared with 2016. At the same time, we reduced the net carbon intensity of the energy products we sell by 9%, compared with 2016, moving towards our target of a 15--20% reduction by 2030. By the end of 2025, we had also reduced emissions from the use of our oil products by 18% compared with 2021, as we progress towards our ambition of a 15--20% reduction by 2030. In a significant milestone for 2025, we achieved our target to eliminate routine flaring from our upstream-operated assets. While we have delivered in many areas, there is still more to do. Our starting point must be safety. It must remain our number one priority. In 2025, four colleagues tragically lost their lives in our operated businesses. I feel that deeply, not just as a CEO but also as a colleague. We owe it to them — and to everyone who works for us — to learn from these incidents, and prevent such tragedies from ever happening again. Integrated energy company As we look to the future, we are making real progress on our strategy to deliver more value with less emissions, putting us in a good position to achieve our vision [E] to be the world's leading integrated energy company. Firstly, we took important steps to grow our integrated gas and LNG business. Gas, especially in the form of LNG, is a stabilising force in the energy system, providing flexibility, reliability and security of supply. It is also a lower-carbon alternative to coal for industry and power, and to diesel and fuel oil for heavy-duty transport and shipping. That is why we believe that supplying LNG will be the biggest contribution we will make to the energy transition over the next decade. In June, the first cargoes left our LNG Canada joint venture, crossing the Pacific Ocean to meet fast-growing demand from customers in Asia. In 2025, we also completed the acquisition of Pavilion Energy in Singapore, strengthening our LNG trading portfolio. Secondly, we continued to focus on keeping liquids production stable, as oil will be essential for the energy system for decades to come. We plan to deliver new projects with more than 1 million barrels of oil equivalent a day by 2030, and we have already added a quarter of that production to our portfolio. In 2025, we achieved our highest-ever quarterly production in Brazil, and our highest quarterly production since 2005 in the Gulf of America. We reached these record levels through the successful start-up of new projects such as Whale in the Gulf of America, which reached nameplate capacity in less than half the expected time. We increased our stake in the Ursa platform in the Gulf of America, unlocking more value from another asset that achieved a strong operational performance in 2025. And in May, production started at the Mero-4 floating production, storage and offloading facility, around 180 kilometres off the coast of Rio de Janeiro, further strengthening our cost- and carbon-competitive deep-water portfolio. [C] On a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) basis. [D] Measured across business cycles under varying economic and market conditions. [E] A vision statement defines the desired future state of a company rather than a series of firm, binding commitments. We took an important step in the repositioning of our Upstream portfolio with the divestment of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) in March 2025. In the UK, we also started a new chapter with our Adura joint venture, one of the largest independent oil and gas producers in the UK North Sea. Premium products Thirdly, we continued to transform our Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions businesses. In our Marketing business, we achieved strong results as we continued to reshape our portfolio with the closure or sale of around 800 lower-performing branded retail sites. Our disciplined approach to capital allocation meant some tough choices. In 2025, we completed the divestment of our Energy and Chemicals Park in Singapore, and stopped construction of our Rotterdam biofuels plant in the Netherlands because it would not have been competitive enough to meet our customers' needs for affordable, low-carbon products. In power, we withdrew from projects like the Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind project in the USA to focus on energy storage, flexible generation and trading. Our focused approach puts us in a better position to serve our customers. The Northern Lights joint venture, for example, has already transported CO 2 from its first industrial customers and injected it beneath the Norwegian Sea. Northern Lights is now moving forward with phase two, which will more than double its storage capacity. In the Netherlands, construction of Holland Hydrogen I, one of Europe's largest renewable hydrogen plants, is progressing well. We will continue to look for opportunities where we can create value for our shareholders. Today we have around $20 billion of our capital employed across lower-carbon platforms, including power (both gas-fired and from renewable energy), low-carbon fuels, hydrogen, and carbon capture and storage [F]. We will develop them as government policies and customer demand help create attractive business models. We believe governments need to provide the predictability and stability that companies like Shell need for long-term investments. We saw some examples of this in 2025, with the German government's move to implement the European Union's Renewable Energy Directive. This requires increases in the share of renewable energy within the electricity, heating, cooling, transport and industrial sectors. Unlocking potential To achieve our vision, we must unlock the full potential of all our businesses, supported by our world-class trading and optimisation capabilities. I saw that potential for myself when I visited with LNG Canada staff in September. It is impressive how different parts of Shell work together — producing the gas, turning it into LNG and shipping the LNG to our customers. I sat with our traders as they worked side by side with production operators to unlock even more value. I remain extremely grateful to all our staff who are transforming our great organisation into the best version that we can be. Their hard work and determination have made Shell much stronger. I am proud of our commitment to simplify, enable faster decisions and deliver the full value of being an integrated business. That is why I am confident saying that customers can trust that Shell will deliver for them, that investors can trust that we will give them attractive returns, and that partners can trust that we will be there when they need us. In short, 'you can be sure of Shell'. Wael Sawan Chief Executive Officer [F] Gas is a lower-carbon alternative to coal in power generation. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. 16 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Shell's strategy This is Shell Shell is a global group of energy and petrochemical companies, employing around 85,000 people [A] across more than 70 countries. Our activities include oil and gas exploration and production, and the marketing of fuels, lubricants and chemical products. We also offer low-carbon energy products and solutions. For more than a century, Shell has been at the heart of the global energy system, fuelling people's homes, industries and transport from cars to planes and ships. Shell provides energy, directly or indirectly, to around a billion people every year. Our purpose is to power progress together by working with each other, our customers and our partners to provide the energy products people need to power their lives and businesses. Our vision [B] is to become the world's leading integrated energy company -- delivering impact at scale, connecting energy and people, matching supply to demand. With global demand for energy increasing, coupled with the challenge of climate change, we will continue to focus on our strategy to deliver more value with less emissions. We are positioning Shell to become a leaner, more competitive organisation to succeed through a multi-decade energy transition. As the energy system evolves, at different paces in different places, we will continue to earn trust in Shell by providing stability through an uncertain and complex energy transition. We seek to build strong, trusted relationships with all our stakeholders. Our stakeholders include: our employees, contractors and pensioners; the investor community; customers, comprising commercial and industrial customers, as well as the millions we serve daily at our retail sites; our suppliers and strategic partners; regulators and governments; non-governmental organisations, civil society, academia and think tanks; and the communities where we work. Partner of choice We will leverage our global footprint, trust in our brand, trading and technology capabilities, and our assets and infrastructure to be the energy company that customers and countries choose to be their partner of choice. Our clear financial targets and climate‑related targets and ambition, and our principles of performance, discipline and simplification, will help enable us to realise our vision. The quality of our people and our performance culture ensure we have the right skills, mindset and behaviours. The extraordinary community of talent that powers Shell will approach the next decade of the energy transition with determination. The Shell Performance Framework (SPF) sets out how we operate across the company. It brings together key components -- such as context, direction, culture, structure, people, processes and continuous improvement -- to help ensure that the organisation is aligned behind a consistent way of working. Our performance culture People are key to our success and we expect everyone who works for Shell to behave according to our core values: honesty, integrity and respect for people. We are transforming Shell to be a more competitive business as we focus on performance, discipline and simplification across our organisation. We are building a culture that we believe will help us succeed as we navigate the energy transition. We encourage four attitudes and behaviours from our people: We deliver results: we deeply understand our businesses, simplifying and improving every day. We are disciplined in working towards meeting our promises even when the unexpected happens. We learn and adapt: we navigate uncertainty and adapt in a rapidly changing world. We value and grow our expertise. We learn from setbacks to accelerate progress. We are one team: we listen to different views to make better data-based decisions. We work together with our customers, communities and countries to consistently deliver on our promises. We care: we care about each other, our work, our values, ethics and diversity, equity and inclusion. This builds trust and is key to our performance as we grow to be our best and deliver commercial outcomes. The Board assesses and monitors our culture and how it is embedded in our attitudes and behaviours, including in our activities and stakeholder relationships. See "Board activities" on page 148. [A] At December 31, 2025, and including portfolio companies. [B] A vision statement defines the desired future state of a company rather than a series of firm, binding commitments. 17 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Shell's strategy | This is Shell continued Strong foundations We will work according to our core values of honesty, integrity, and respect for people. We care about each other, our work, and about doing business the right way – with a focus on safety, people and sustainability. We are committed to doing business in an ethical and transparent way. The nature of our operations exposes us to a wide range of safety risks. As we implement our strategy, we will continue to focus on achieving our Goal Zero ambition: to do no harm to people and to have no leaks across operations. This goal lies at the very heart of our plans and our activities, and we work to ensure our people are prepared to respond if something goes wrong. The Shell Code of Conduct explains how employees, contractors and anyone else acting on behalf of Shell must behave, and the Shell General Business Principles (SGBP) set out our responsibilities to all our stakeholders. We believe that no business can succeed without an unwavering commitment to respecting nature and the communities within which it works. For almost three decades, our commitment to contribute to sustainable development has been part of the SGBP. This requires balancing short- and long-term interests, and integrating economic, environmental and social considerations into business decision-making. We seek to manage our impact on people, while working to protect nature, increase reuse and recycling, support biodiversity and use resources efficiently. We also strive to make a positive impact on people around the world, and this includes providing the energy people need, contributing to local economies and communities, championing inclusion and respecting human rights. Our promise that you can be sure of Shell is based on continuity in character and values, and commitment to the people we work with, to the customers we serve and to the investors for whom we are working to deliver more value with less emissions. What sets us apart Deep-water expertise We have almost five decades of deep-water expertise and continue to develop innovative designs for oil and gas assets, replicating successful projects to deliver more value with less emissions. Our deep-water business has a track record of sustained cash flow. Integrated gas and LNG capability We are the world's leading publicly listed supplier of LNG with a worldwide network of customers, extensive shipping and storage assets, and access to regasification plants. Our Integrated Gas portfolio is the largest among peers, servicing nearly a fifth of global LNG demand. Our diversified and global portfolio of plants and terminals enhances our resilience to market shocks and allows us to capitalise on price volatility. Brand leader in mobility and lubricants Shell is the world's number one finished lubricants supplier and a leader in mobility with a first-class customer‑centric network. By prioritising value over volume and focusing on premium fuels and lubricants, we deliver stronger returns today and stay relevant as customer needs evolve. Technology and innovation Shell has a long history in technology and innovation. We have a global network of research and development centres and work closely with our customers, suppliers and partners. We also collaborate with leading technology companies to deploy digital solutions at scale across our businesses. Integrated business model – trading and optimisation Shell produces energy and is also one of the world's largest and most experienced energy traders and suppliers. We can identify and meet a customer's needs quickly. Our value chains are enhanced by our logistics infrastructure, purchases from third parties and a leading global position in energy markets. 18 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Shell's strategy | This is Shell continued Our businesses Reporting segments Integrated Gas Integrated Gas includes natural gas and liquids exploration and extraction. The gas is then processed to produce liquefied natural gas (LNG) or converted into gas-to-liquids (GTL) fuels and other products. The business includes the operation of both upstream and midstream infrastructure necessary to deliver natural gas and its derivatives to market. Integrated Gas also includes the marketing, trading and optimisation of LNG. See pages 45-51 for a review of our performance. Upstream Upstream explores for and extracts crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. The segment also includes marketing and transportation of oil, gas and liquids, supported by the infrastructure required to deliver them to market or to process them within Shell's chemicals manufacturing plants and refineries. Upstream activities span deep-water and conventional oil and gas operations. See pages 52-60 for a review of our performance. Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions Marketing includes Mobility, Lubricants, and Sectors and Decarbonisation. Mobility operates our retail network, including electric vehicle charging, convenience retail, and the Wholesale Commercial Fuels business for transport and industry. Lubricants produces, markets and sells products for road transport and machinery in manufacturing, mining, power generation, agriculture and construction. Sectors and Decarbonisation supplies fuels, speciality products and services, including low-carbon energy solutions such as biofuels, to a broad range of commercial customers, including in the aviation, marine and agriculture sectors. See pages 69-73 for a review of our performance. Chemicals and Products includes chemicals manufacturing plants with their own marketing network, and refineries which turn crude oil and other feedstocks into a range of oil products which are moved and marketed around the world for domestic, industrial and transport use. The segment also includes the pipeline business, trading and optimisation of crude oil, oil products and petrochemicals. See pages 74-80 for a review of our performance. Renewables and Energy Solutions encompasses renewable power generation, marketing, trading, and optimisation of power and pipeline gas. It also includes hydrogen production, commercial carbon capture and storage (CCS) hubs and carbon credits. The business invests in nature-based projects that compensate for carbon emissions and Shell Ventures, which invests in or works with start-ups and other early-stage businesses to help them scale up and grow. See pages 81-85 for a review of our performance. 19 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Shell's strategy Our strategy Our strategy is to deliver more value with less emissions. We will continue to drive the transformation of Shell into a leaner and more competitive organisation while delivering resilient returns and rewarding our shareholders. As we transform, we will maintain our focus on performance, discipline and simplification. We will: Grow our integrated gas and LNG business Grow LNG sales 4--5% (CAGR) per year through to 2030 [A]. With our leadership position in LNG and the growing role of natural gas in the global energy system, we are pursuing LNG sales growth. Gas, including LNG, is a stabilising force in energy systems because it is versatile, flexible and reliable. Gas is versatile because it can be used in power generation, industry, heating and transport. It is also flexible and reliable because it is simple to deploy and can be shipped, as LNG, to where it is needed to meet changing demand. Gas can balance renewable energy to provide stability for national grids. Our global trading and supply network enhances the value of our gas portfolio, enabling us to capture opportunities from market volatility while providing secure energy to customers across the world. Keep liquids production stable Sustain liquids production at 1.4 million barrels per day, while growing total production by 1% through to 2030 [B]. The role of oil and gas will be critical to the energy system for decades to come. We are focused on our leading deep-water and strong conventional oil and gas businesses. We are committed to delivering value over the long term from our advantaged portfolio of assets and differentiated set of capabilities. These businesses are highly complementary, as conventional oil can offer price resilience while deep-water can provide price upside with its high-margin barrels. We aim to sustain liquids production through to 2030 and will focus on basins where we have a competitive advantage. We will prioritise cost- and carbon-competitive molecules. Transform Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions Drive cash flow resilience and higher returns through disciplined capital allocation. Shell operates a diverse portfolio. This portfolio includes Mobility, Lubricants and our high-graded Products portfolio which covers refined products supported by our global trading and supply capabilities. We are focused on enhancing value from these businesses which deliver resilient cash flow. We are repositioning Chemicals, power and existing low-carbon options (including CCS, hydrogen and low-carbon fuels) to unlock greater value. We will continue to focus on adjusting investments and business models based on evolving market demand. Our strategy is to deliver more value with less emissions Grow our integrated gas and LNG business ￮ Grow LNG sales 4--5% per year through to 2030 [A]. Keep liquids production stable ￮ Sustain liquids production at 1.4 million barrels per day, while growing total production by 1% through to 2030 [B]. Transform Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions ￮ Drive cash flow resilience and higher returns through disciplined capital allocation. [A] On a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) basis. [B] Upstream and Integrated Gas. 20 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Shell's strategy | Our strategy continued More value At Capital Markets Day 2025, we set out a financial framework that will support us in delivering more value. We are driving improvements in free cash flow generation through disciplined capital allocation, the optimisation of our portfolio, cost efficiency and improved operational performance, including measures such as increasing asset availability and utilisation. This will support us in achieving our target to grow normalised free cash flow per share* by more than 10% on average per year [A] to 2030. We plan cash capital expenditure within the range of $20--22 billion per year between 2025 and 2028, with $21 billion in 2025. In addition, we are targeting 40--50% of our cash flow from operating activities through the cycle for shareholder distributions* [B]. Furthermore, we will continue to reduce structural costs, targeting $5--7 billion in cumulative savings by the end of 2028 compared with 2022. By the end of 2025, we had already achieved structural cost reductions of $5.1 billion since 2022 with more to come. Nearly 60% of the structural cost reductions have come from operational efficiencies, a leaner corporate centre and faster value-based decision-making. Less emissions As we work to deliver more value, we must also navigate the multi-decade energy transition. We have a target to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. To help achieve the 2050 target, we also have a target to halve absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions under our operational control by 2030, on a net basis, compared with 2016. As of 2025, we have already achieved some 70% of that target. These are the emissions that come directly from our operations and from the energy we buy to run our operations. For example, we are progressing with improving the energy efficiency of our operations and using more renewable electricity to power our activities. We also have a target to maintain methane emissions intensity for our operated oil and gas assets below 0.2% and achieve near-zero methane emissions intensity by 2030 [C]. In addition, we have a target to cut the net carbon intensity (NCI) of the products we sell by 15--20% by 2030 compared with 2016. And, we are on track, delivering 9% by end-2025 compared with 2016. Achieving our ambition to reduce customer emissions from the use of our oil products [D] by 15-20% by 2030, compared with 2021, means reducing sales of oil products, as we support customers as they move to electric mobility and low-carbon fuels, such as biofuels. By the end of 2025, we had achieved an 18% reduction. See "Less emissions" on pages 89-117. [A] On a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) basis. [B] Subject to Board approval. [C] Methane intensity is measured and calculated separately for oil and gas assets with marketed gas (gas, LNG and GTL available for sale) and assets without marketed gas (oil and gas assets where gas is reinjected). [D] Scope 3, Category 11. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. Executing our strategy Our ability to adapt to the dynamic energy landscape and evolving market conditions will be essential to our long-term success. We are shaping our portfolio to focus on areas of competitive advantage, supported by disciplined capital allocation, global customer reach and world-class trading and supply capabilities. In 2025, we executed several deliberate value-driven decisions to strengthen our businesses. In Upstream, we completed the divestment of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria, the conclusion of a major multi-year effort. We also completed the formation of the Adura Energy Limited joint venture, which is one of the largest independent producers in the UK North Sea. And, in Chemicals and Products, we divested our asset in Singapore as we are working to reposition our portfolio to unlock further value. These decisive actions demonstrate our focus on value. Photos: Our people are essential to our strategy of delivering more value with less emissions. We are transforming Shell into a leaner, more competitive organisation as we focus on performance, discipline and simplification. Whale platform, Gulf of America, 2025. 21 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Shell's strategy | Our strategy continued Capital Markets Day 2025 presented an update to our financial targets. We are focused on driving performance, enhancing capital efficiency and unlocking value across our portfolio. Financial discipline and strategic focus Our strengthened financial framework positions us to drive long-term value creation, with disciplined capital allocation and a commitment to deliver resilient returns through the cycle [A]. Continued improvements in operational performance, cost discipline and strategic investment in high-return opportunities will underpin this journey. Updates to our financial targets: ￮ Enhance shareholder distributions from 30–40% to 40–50% of cash flow from operating activities* through the cycle [A], continuing to prioritise share buybacks while maintaining the 4% a year progressive dividend policy [C]. ￮ Increase the structural cost reduction target from $2--3 billion by the end of 2025 to a cumulative $5–7 billion by the end of 2028, compared with 2022. ￮ Maintain capital discipline with cash capital expenditure range lowered to $20--22 billion a year for 2025--2028 from $22--25 billion a year for 2024--2025. ￮ Grow normalised free cash flow per share* on average by more than 10% a year through to 2030 [B]. Shell financial framework: a value-led approach to capital allocation Balanced capital allocation Total distributions Enhanced shareholder distributions 40 – 50% of CFFO* through the cycle [A] Cash capital expenditure (cash capex) Disciplined investment $20–22 billion p.a. 2025--2028 Prioritising buybacks 17 consecutive quarters ≥$3 billion Dividend consistency +4% announced at Q4 2025 Integrated Gas and Upstream cash capex ~ $12--14 billion Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions cash capex ~ $8 billion Intrinsic value creation >10% p.a. (CAGR) normalised free cash flow per share growth, through to 2030* [B] Progressive dividend 4% annual increase [C] Capital reallocation ≥10% ROACE* across segments [D] Balance sheet Maintain strong investment grade rating through the cycle [A] [A] Measured across business cycles under varying economic and market conditions. [B] On a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) basis. [C] Subject to Board approval. When the Board sets the level of shareholder distributions, it looks at a range of factors including the macro environment, underlying business earnings and Group cash flows, the current balance sheet, future investment, acquisition and divestment plans, and existing commitments. [D] Price-normalised return on average capital employed (ROACE) on an Adjusted Earnings plus non-controlling interest basis. The statements in this "Our strategy" section are forward-looking statements based on our operating plan, management's current expectations and certain material assumptions and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied herein. See "About this Report" on pages 11-12 and "Risk factors and risk management" on pages 23-32. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. 22 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report Risk factors and risk management Risk factors The risks discussed below could have a material adverse effect separately, or in combination, on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. Accordingly, investors should carefully consider these risks. Further background on each risk is set out in the relevant sections of this Report, indicated by way of cross references. 1. Portfolio risks Risk type: Strategic risk Operational risk Conduct and culture risk We are exposed to risks that could adversely affect the resilience of our overall portfolio of businesses. These include external risks such as macroeconomic risks, including fluctuating commodity prices, competitive forces and political, geopolitical, legal and fiscal developments. Our future performance depends on the successful development and deployment of new technologies that provide new products and solutions. In addition, our future hydrocarbon production depends on the delivery of integrated projects and our ability to replace proved oil and gas reserves. Many of our major projects and operations are conducted in joint arrangements or with associates, which could reduce our degree of control and our ability to identify and manage risks. Risk description We are exposed to various external risks, such as macroeconomic, competitive and country risks, and internal risks associated with growing and maturing our business opportunities through our portfolio of businesses and joint arrangements, as follows: a. Macroeconomic risks: ￮ The prices of crude oil, natural gas, oil products, chemicals and power are affected by supply and demand, both globally and regionally. Factors that influence supply and demand include operational issues; natural disasters; pandemics; political instability; geopolitical tensions, including conflicts; macroeconomic conditions, including inflation and tariffs (such as those announced by the USA); actions by major oil and gas producing countries; and technological uncertainties. These have in the past resulted in, and similar events could in the future result in, material price fluctuations. Government decisions may affect the prices of energy products. These include price caps and tariffs, and policies which speed up or slow down the adoption of low-carbon products and technologies. ￮ In a low oil and gas price environment, we have generated, and could in the future again generate, less revenue from our Integrated Gas and Upstream businesses, and parts of those businesses could become less profitable or incur losses. Low oil and gas prices have also resulted, and could result in the future, in the debooking of proved oil or gas reserves, if they become uneconomic in this type of price environment. Prolonged periods of low oil and gas prices, or rising costs, have resulted, and could result in the future, in projects being delayed or cancelled. Assets have been impaired in the past, and there could be impairments in the future. Low oil and gas prices have affected, and could affect in the future, our ability to maintain our long-term capital investment and shareholder distribution programmes. ￮ Under high oil and gas prices, our entitlement to proved reserves under some production-sharing contracts has been, and could be in the future, reduced. Higher prices could also reduce demand for our products, which could result in lower profitability in certain businesses in the Group, particularly in our Chemicals and Products, and Marketing businesses. Some of the reduction in demand could be permanent. Higher prices can also lead to more capacity being built, potentially resulting in an oversupplied market which could negatively affect our businesses. ￮ We use a range of commodity price and margin assumptions to evaluate the robustness of our capital allocation across our different projects and commercial opportunities. Due to volatility in macroeconomic conditions, actual results have differed from our assumptions and may do so in the future. Such differences could result in returns being lower than planned. b. Competitive risks: ￮ We face competition in all our businesses, which is amplified by the energy transition and competing products. We seek to differentiate our services and products, though many of our products are competing in commodity-type markets. Accordingly, a failure to manage our costs and our operational performance could result in a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. We also compete with state-owned hydrocarbon entities and state-backed utility entities with access to financial resources and local markets. Such entities could be motivated by political or other factors in making their business decisions and may not require competitive returns. Consequently, when bidding on new leases or projects, we could find ourselves at a competitive disadvantage or unable to obtain competitive returns. Furthermore, the mainstream arrival of generative AI has the ability to modify how companies improve efficiency and where they compete, potentially altering dynamics of our commodity-type markets, affecting our competitive position. 23 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Risk factors and risk management continued c. Delivery of capital projects and our ability to replace proved oil and gas reserves: ￮ Shell's ability to deliver capital projects and sustain future production is subject to a range of risks. These include strategic, operational and external factors that may impact the performance, resilience and competitiveness of our investment portfolio. Challenges in developing capital projects, particularly integrated and frontier ventures, include uncertain geology, deep drilling conditions, supply chain constraints, the lack of available skilled labour and technology, the absence of transport infrastructure, permitting delays and cost overruns. These risks are compounded by geopolitical instability, inflationary pressures and evolving legal and regulatory landscapes. We may fail to assess or manage these and other risks properly. Such potential obstacles have adversely impacted, and could in the future adversely, impact our delivery of these projects, our ability to realise the full potential value of the project as assessed when the investment was approved, and our ability to fulfil related contractual commitments. This has led, and could in the future lead, to impairments of our investments. ￮ Our future oil and gas production depends on our access to new proved reserves through exploration, negotiations with governments and other owners of proved reserves and acquisitions, and through developing and applying new technologies and recovery processes to existing fields. A failure to replace proved reserves would result in an accelerated decrease of future production and would negatively impact our ability to sustain material liquids production as per our Capital Markets Day 2025 (CMD25). Oil and gas production available for sale Million boe [A] 2025 2024 2023 Shell subsidiaries 937 956 937 Shell share of joint ventures and associates 85 82 82 Total 1,022 1,038 1,019 [A] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel. Proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas reserves [A][B] Million boe [C] Dec 31, 2025 Dec 31, 2024 Dec 31, 2023 Shell subsidiaries 6,587 8,156 8,283 Shell share of joint ventures and associates 1,536 1,464 1,504 Total 8,123 9,620 9,787 Attributable to non-controlling interest of Shell subsidiaries 0 370 378 [A] We manage our total proved reserves base without distinguishing between proved reserves from subsidiaries and those from joint ventures and associates. [B] Includes proved reserves associated with future production that will be consumed in operations. [C] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel. ￮ The estimation of proved oil and gas reserves involves subjective judgements and determinations based on available geological, technical, contractual and economic information. Estimates can change over time because of new information from production or drilling activities, changes in economic factors, such as oil and gas prices, alterations in the regulatory policies of host governments or other events. Estimates also change to reflect acquisitions, divestments, new discoveries, extensions of existing fields and mines, and improved recovery techniques. Published proved oil and gas reserves estimates could also be subject to correction (as has happened to Shell in the past) because of errors in the application of rules and changes in regulatory guidance. Downward adjustments could indicate lower future production volumes and could also lead to impairment of assets. d. Country risks: ￮ We operate in countries which have differing degrees of political, legal and fiscal stability. Potential impacts, which we have experienced in the past and could experience in the future, include: forced divestment of assets; expropriation of property; cancellation or forced renegotiation of contract rights; delay of new projects; additional tariffs, including potential retaliatory tariffs; additional taxes, including windfall taxes (especially during periods of prolonged high oil and gas prices); restrictions on deductions and retroactive tax claims; antitrust claims; changes to trade compliance regulations; price controls; local content requirements; foreign exchange controls; changes to environmental regulations; changes to regulatory interpretations and enforcement; and changes to disclosure requirements. ￮ The world is also facing continued and protracted geopolitical instability which impacts market conditions and our operations. For example, the broader consequences of the ongoing conflicts and tensions in the Middle East remain uncertain and could negatively impact our operations in the region and beyond. ￮ In some countries, the security of our operations and/or our people has been affected in the past and is likely to be affected in the future by risks such as kidnapping and extortion; sabotage and crude theft; community activism; labour protests; military interventions; political instability; and inconsistent rule of law and due process. 24 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Risk factors and risk management continued e. Joint arrangements: ￮ When we are not the operator, we have less influence and control over the behaviour, performance and operating costs of joint arrangements or associates. Despite having less control, we have been, and still are, exposed to the risks associated with these operations, including environmental, reputational, legal (where joint and several liability could apply) and government sanction risks. For example, our partners or members of a joint arrangement or an associate (particularly local partners in developing countries) may be unable to meet their financial or other obligations for projects or operations, threatening the viability of a given project. Where we are the operator of a joint arrangement, the other partner(s) could still be able to veto or block certain decisions, which could be detrimental to the joint arrangement. f. Technology risks: ￮ Technology and innovation are essential to our efforts to help meet the world's energy demands competitively. If we fail to effectively develop and/or deploy new technology, products and solutions, there could be a material adverse effect on the delivery of our strategy. We operate in environments where advanced technologies are used. In developing new technologies, products and solutions, unknown or unforeseeable technological failures or environmental and health effects could harm our reputation and licence to operate or expose us to litigation or sanctions. The associated costs of new technology are sometimes underestimated, impacting their expected returns. We have faced delays in developing new technology in the past, and such delays could happen again in the future. If we are unable to develop our technology and products in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may fail to realise commercially viable products. If any of the risks above materialise, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. See "Market overview" on pages 42-44, "Innovation and Technology" on pages 87-88, "Oil and gas information" on pages 61-68 and "Supplementary information - oil and gas (unaudited)" on pages 291-309. 2. Climate change and the energy transition Risk type: Strategic risk Operational risk Conduct and culture risk Climate change and the energy transition pose multiple risks to Shell, including declines in the demand for and prices of our products, commercial risks from growing our low-carbon business, and adverse litigation and regulatory developments. The physical impacts of climate change could also adversely affect our assets and supply chains. Risk description The risks and impacts include the following: a. Commercial risks: ￮ Changing customer sentiment in some markets favouring the use of renewable and sustainable energy products may reduce demand for our oil and gas products. An excess of fossil fuel supply over demand could result in reduced fossil fuel prices. This could result in lower earnings, cancelled projects, debooking of reserves and the potential impairment of certain assets. ￮ If we fail to stay in step with customers' and other stakeholders' demand for low-carbon products, this could adversely affect our reputation and future earnings. If we move much faster than society, we risk investing in technologies, markets or low-carbon products for which there may be insufficient demand. If we are slower than society, or if low-carbon technology advances faster than we expect, customers may prefer a different supplier. This would reduce demand for our products, adversely affecting our reputation and materially affecting our financial results. ￮ Low-carbon technology and innovation are essential to our efforts to help meet the world's energy demands competitively. If we are unable to develop the right technologies and products in a timely and cost-effective manner, there could be an adverse effect on our future earnings. The operating margins for our low-carbon products and services [A] have been, and could be in the future, lower than the margins we have experienced historically in our oil and gas operations. ￮ Certain investors have decided to divest their interest in fossil fuel companies and, if this were to increase significantly, this could have a material adverse effect on the price of our securities and our ability to access capital markets. Some financial institutions have been aligning their portfolios to low-carbon opportunities, driven by both regulatory and broader stakeholder pressures. A failure to decarbonise our business portfolios in line with investor and lender expectations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access financing for certain types of projects. This could also adversely affect our partners' ability to finance their portion of costs, either through equity or debt. [A] Electric vehicle charging services, renewable power generation, nature-based solutions, green hydrogen, CCS. We define low-carbon energy products as those that have an average carbon intensity that is lower than that of conventional hydrocarbon products, assessed on a life-cycle basis. b. Societal risks, including litigation: ￮ Societal expectations around energy security, energy affordability and mitigating climate change continue to shift with uncertain implications for businesses with regard to mix and quality of products, safety and minimising damage to the environment. The role of the oil and gas sector in the context of climate change and the energy transition has been, and continues to be, an area of focus and public debate. This has negatively affected, and in the future could negatively affect, our licence to operate; our brand, reputation and competitive position; and could reduce consumer demand for our products, harm our ability to secure new energy partnerships and contracts, and restrict our ability to access capital markets or attract employees. ￮ In some countries, governments, regulators, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and individuals have filed lawsuits seeking to hold fossil fuel companies liable for costs associated with climate change. If successful, these claims may have wide-ranging consequences, including forcing entities to hand over strategic autonomy in part to regulators, or to divest from hydrocarbon assets and technologies. In the Netherlands, a group of environmental NGOs and individual claimants (referred to herein as "Milieudefensie") have filed an appeal with the Dutch Supreme Court against the Court of Appeal judgment of November 12, 2024, which overturned a lower court finding that Shell had an obligation to reduce certain aggregate annual volumes of CO 2 emissions by 2030. We have also been subjected to climate activism that has caused disruptions to our operations, and such disruptions could happen again in the future. Climate change lawsuits that have been filed against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. 25 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Risk factors and risk management continued c. Regulatory risks: ￮ Divergence in regulatory direction has created, and continues to create, uncertainty and complexity for multinational companies operating globally. The renewed focus on the competitive agenda in the EU aims to simplify current and incoming climate regulations and disclosure requirements, with the USA moving towards deregulation at the federal level, even as some states adopt stricter rules. The lack of consistent government policy needed to provide a conducive regulatory environment for low-carbon products and solutions could make it more challenging to take investment decisions on projects that we and society need to reach our respective decarbonisation goals as policy is critical for creating sustained demand for new low-carbon solutions. Similarly, climate policy approaches that hamper or constrain market efficiency and competition could increase costs and make projects less attractive, challenging our ability to deliver our strategy. ￮ The transition to a low-carbon economy continues to increase compliance costs for our assets and products. Shell's annual carbon cost exposure is expected to rise as carbon pricing expands globally and average prices increase, although there remains uncertainty in how carbon pricing mechanisms may be implemented in the future given the lack of net-zero-aligned global and national policies and frameworks. This makes it more challenging to determine appropriate assumptions for financial planning and investment decisions, which could impair our ability to assess the robustness of our plans. ￮ Rapid changes in government climate and energy transition related policies and regulations could also lead to impairments of our existing oil and gas assets. Governments may also introduce further restrictions on hydrocarbon exploration and production and impose stricter standards for decommissioning, which could affect timing and costs. d. Physical risks: ￮ The physical effects of climate change, such as, but not limited to, increases in temperature, sea levels and fluctuations in water availability, could also adversely affect our assets, operations, supply chains, employees and markets. In summary, continued climate change concerns about the pace at which we decarbonise our operations relative to society and effects of the energy transition pose multiple challenges to our business. These could result in, for example, increased costs, financial penalties, payments of financial damages in the event of losses of lawsuits, cancelled projects and potential impairment of certain assets, and adverse impacts on our supply chains and licence to operate. Individually or collectively, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. See "Less emissions" on pages 89-117, "Renewables and Energy Solutions" on pages 81-85, Note 32 "Legal proceedings and other contingencies" on pages 286-288 and Note 4 "Climate change and energy transition" on pages 228-239. 3. Financial risks Risk type: Strategic risk Operational risk Conduct and culture risk We are exposed to treasury risks, including liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and credit risk. We are affected by the global macroeconomic environment and the conditions of financial markets. These, and changes to certain demographic factors, also impact our pension assets and liabilities. Risk description We are subject to differing economic and financial market conditions around the world. Political and economic instability affects such markets. We use debt instruments, such as bonds and commercial paper, to raise significant amounts of capital. Should access to debt markets become more challenging, the impact on our liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our operations. For example, some financial institutions have started to limit their exposure to fossil fuel projects. Group financing costs could also be adversely affected by interest rate fluctuations or any credit rating deterioration. We are exposed to changes in currency values and to exchange controls as a result of our substantial international operations. Our reporting currency is the US dollar, although, to a significant extent, we also hold assets and are exposed to liabilities in other currencies. While we undertake some foreign exchange hedging, we do not do so for all our activities. Even where hedging is in place, it may not function as expected. We are also exposed to financial losses from credit risk. Some of our counterparties have, from time to time, not met their payment and/or performance obligations under contractual arrangements and this could happen in the future. We operate several defined benefit pension plans that have significant long-term pension liabilities and associated assets. Volatility in capital markets or changes to government policies could affect inflation, interest rates and investment performance, with the potential to cause significant changes to the funding position. Changes in assumptions for longevity, retirement age or pensionable remuneration at retirement could also cause significant changes to the funding position. In the case of a funding shortfall, we could be required to make substantial cash contributions, depending on the applicable local regulations. If any of the above risks materialise, they could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. See "Liquidity and capital resources" on pages 38-41 and Note 24 "Retirement benefits" on pages 268-274. 26 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Risk factors and risk management continued 4. Trading risks Risk type: Strategic risk Operational risk Conduct and culture risk Our trading operations are exposed to market risks which cannot be fully mitigated and could lead to significant financial losses. Our trading entities are also exposed to regulatory and conduct risks, which could expose us to regulatory fines if the risks materialise. Risk description Commodity trading is an important component of our business which involves processing, managing and monitoring many transactions across different countries to optimise commercial margins from market price movements. This exposes us to operational risks, market risks including commodity price risk and compliance risks including regulatory, market abuse, sanctions and conduct risks. We use physical and financial instruments, including derivatives such as futures and options, to hedge market risks, though it is not possible to eliminate all market risks we are exposed to. Therefore, our hedging has occasionally not performed as expected and may not do so in the future. Consequently, this activity could expose us to the risk of incurring significant losses if prices develop unfavourably. Our commodity trading entities are subject to many regulations, including requirements for standards of conduct. Due to the high volume of trades we execute, commodity trading gives rise to the risk of ineffective controls, failure in oversight of trading activities and a risk that traders could deliberately operate outside our internal operating limits. These risks have materialised in the past and could materialise in the future, resulting in financial losses. The rapidly changing regulatory environment also creates a risk of insufficient, delayed or incorrect implementation of new regulatory requirements or changes to existing regulatory requirements. Violations of such regulatory requirements could expose us and our employees to regulatory fines. If any of the above risks materialise, it could harm our reputation and licence to operate and have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. See "Liquidity and capital resources" on pages 38-41 and "Living by our values" on pages 138-139. 5. Health, safety, security and the environment Risk type: Strategic risk Operational risk Conduct and culture risk The nature of our operations exposes us, and the communities in which we work, to a wide range of health, safety, security and environment risks. Risk description The health, safety, security and environment (HSSE) risks to which we and the communities in which we work are potentially exposed cover a wide spectrum, given the geographical range, operational diversity and technical complexity of our operations. These risks include ineffective application of design, technical and operational integrity standards, and natural disasters (including weather events and earthquakes). If a major safety or environment risk materialises, such as an explosion or hydrocarbon leak or spill, which we have experienced in the past, this could result in injuries, loss of life, environmental harm (including soil contamination and biodiversity loss), disruption of business activities, loss or suspension of permits, loss of our licence to operate and loss of our ability to bid on mineral rights. Social instability, criminality, civil unrest, terrorism, cyber disruption and acts of war have also negatively impacted, and could negatively impact, our operations, our assets, our employees and contractors, and the communities in which we operate. Risks which have materialised in the past include: acts of terrorism; acts of criminality, including maritime criminality and piracy; crude oil theft, illegal oil refining, sabotage of pipelines and militant activities; cyber espionage or disruptive cyber security attacks; conflicts and civil unrest; malicious acts carried out by individuals within Shell, such as data exfiltration; and environmental and climate activism (including disruptions by NGOs, especially in the USA and north-west Europe). For example, activists have boarded and protested on our vessels, assets and work sites, such as the Skiff platform in the southern North Sea in 2025. Financial losses and remediation costs from safety and environmental incidents are partially, but not fully, covered by our Group insurance companies (wholly owned subsidiaries) or third-party insurers. Accordingly, in the event of a significant incident, we may have to meet our obligations without access to proceeds from third-party insurers. We have in the past incurred adverse impacts and costs from events, such as the industrial fire at the Deer Park chemicals facility in 2023. Our operations are subject to extensive HSSE regulatory requirements that often change and are expected to become more stringent over time, particularly in the area of environment. Governments could require operators to adjust their future production plans, affecting production and costs. We have incurred, and could incur in the future, significant extra costs because of the need to comply with such requirements. Due to past violations of laws and regulations, and other regulatory obligations, we have incurred significant costs such as fines, penalties, clean-up costs (including decommissioning and restoration costs) and costs associated with third-party claims. We also face the risk of increasing costs from changes in regulations and technical standards relating to decommissioning and restoration. The above risks have threatened, and can threaten, the safe operation of our assets and the transport of our products. They have harmed, and can harm, the well-being of our people, inflict loss of life and injuries, and disrupt our operational activities. They can also damage the environment and negatively impact the communities in which we operate and our reputation. If a significant HSSE risk materialises, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. See "Safety" on pages 126-128, "Our approach to sustainability" on pages 119-125, "Corporate" on page 86. 27 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Risk factors and risk management continued 6. Information technology and cyber security risks Risk type: Strategic risk Operational risk Conduct and culture risk We rely heavily on information technology systems in our operations, which have been, and could continue to be, impacted by cyber security incidents. In addition, if we fail to harness advancements in digital technologies, we may become less efficient and competitive, hindering our ability to execute our strategy. Risk description Shell operates a globally integrated model with a strong focus on digitalising business processes and an increasing dependence on information technology (IT) systems for our core operations, including for the management of personal data and other business-critical data, and the availability of critical infrastructure. As a result, we are heavily reliant on secure, affordable and resilient IT services provided both in-house and by third parties. Rapid advancements in digital technologies, including artificial intelligence (AI) and internet of things (IoT), are ongoing. If we do not effectively harness these technologies, our business operations may become less efficient, and our product offerings could lose their competitive edge, ultimately hindering our ability to execute our strategy. Externally, we observe developments impacting our cyber security risk profile: a fast-evolving cyber security threat landscape represented by increasing volumes of sophisticated cyber security attacks, rapid technological developments and geopolitical conflicts. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, cyber security threats such as denial-of-service, ransomware, hacktivism and attacks from nation state actors that target critical energy infrastructure. We have also experienced, and could in the future be exposed to, non-malicious IT incidents. The rapid evolution of AI, in particular agentic and generative AI, introduces additional complexity to existing cyber and information security risks, including data leakage, unauthorised access, data manipulation and system exploitations. Similar cyber security threats and incidents could also be encountered across our supply chain by our suppliers, customers and business partners. Cyber security incidents affecting us or our end-to-end supply chain have impacted, and could impact in the future, our operations, the security of our assets and the safety of our employees, and have a societal impact on the delivery and maintenance of critical energy infrastructure. These incidents frequently involve personal data breaches which may harm our customers, employees and stakeholders, including investors. In addition, such incidents have disrupted, and could disrupt, our operations, cause reputational damage and possibly lead to significant regulatory fines. As an organisation, we also observe an increase in regulations across the markets in which we operate, such as the EU Network and Information Security Directive 2 and the US Maritime Transportation Security Act. As the adoption of AI technology expands, its potential misuse also increases, challenging the adherence to regulations (including the EU Artificial Intelligence Act), and exposing companies to legal fines and penalties. Countries are adopting varied, and sometimes conflicting, legislative frameworks. This is increasing complexity and uncertainty for multinational organisations like Shell. The divergence can make it challenging to monitor the different requirements while maintaining consistent governance and risk management across jurisdictions, thereby increasing the risk of non-compliance with relevant regulations. Cyber security incidents could therefore have an enterprise-wide impact including material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. See "Innovation and Technology" on pages 87-88. 7. Litigation and regulatory compliance Risk type: Strategic risk Operational risk Conduct and culture risk Violations of laws carry fines and could expose us and/or our employees to criminal sanctions and civil suits. We have faced, and continue to face, the risk of litigation and disputes worldwide. Risk description We must comply with various laws. These include, but are not limited to, laws related to antitrust, competition, anti-bribery, fraud, tax evasion, anti-money laundering, trade compliance (including sanctions) and data privacy. We have been fined in the past for violations of antitrust and competition laws, including fines by the EU Directorate-General for Competition (DG COMP). We have also, in the past, settled with the US Securities and Exchange Commission regarding violations of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). As a result, any future conviction of Shell or any of its operated joint arrangements or associates for violations of EU competition law or the FCPA could result in significantly larger fines and have a material adverse effect on us, including, but not limited to, damage to our reputation, resulting litigation, regulatory actions and criminal sanctions or penalties, and could potentially adversely affect our licence to operate. Violation of antitrust laws is a criminal offence in many countries, and individuals can be imprisoned or fined. In certain circumstances, directors may receive director disqualification orders. We are also subject to "trade compliance", the umbrella term that we use for various national and international laws designed to regulate the movement of items across national boundaries and restrict or prohibit trade, financial flows and other dealings with certain parties, countries and territories. For example, the EU, the UK and the USA continue to impose comprehensive sanctions on countries and territories such as North Korea, Iran, and Crimea and other territories in Eastern Ukraine. The USA continues to have comprehensive sanctions against Cuba. Countries around the world continue to impose sanctions and trade controls against Russia over its full-scale invasion of Ukraine and against Belarus over its support for Russia. The USA has also imposed comprehensive sanctions on Venezuela and although several General Licenses have recently been issued, sanctions continue to significantly impact the energy sector in Venezuela. The EU and the UK continue to maintain targeted sanctions against Venezuela. Intergovernmental co-operation in this area has increased and there is growing pressure to enforce existing sanctions globally. Applicable trade compliance laws and regulations are subject to change at short notice. Abiding by all the laws and regulations on trade compliance is often complex and challenging because of factors such as: the expansion of sanctions; the frequent addition of prohibited parties; the number of markets in which we operate; the risk of differences in how jurisdictions apply sanctions; and the large number of transactions we 28 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Risk factors and risk management continued process. Shell has voluntarily self-disclosed potential violations of sanctions in the past. Any violation of sanctions could lead to loss of import or export privileges and significant penalties on, or prosecution of, Shell and/or its employees. The protection and lawful use of personal data is critical to our licence to operate, given the significant increase in digital solutions used within Shell and provided to our customers and business partners. We process personal data throughout the Shell Group as part of our business activities. A failure to protect personal data or the use of such data for unlawful purposes could result in harm to those individuals whose personal data we process. Regulatory action and other enforcement measures may be imposed depending on applicable law. There is also a related risk of litigation and reputational harm, potentially leading to the loss of trust among existing and potential customers, stakeholders, regulators and employees. We have previously notified data privacy regulators of data breaches and have had fines issued against us, and this could happen again in the future. We also face the risk of litigation and disputes worldwide. For example, Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (NAM), a joint venture between Shell and ExxonMobil (50:50) has settled claims for physical damage to property caused by earthquakes induced by historical production from the Groningen gas field and remains financially responsible insofar as the costs corresponded to NAM's liability. From time to time, social and political factors play a role in unprecedented and unanticipated judicial outcomes that could adversely affect Shell. Recent cases indicate that the English courts are increasingly willing to allow claims to proceed against UK incorporated parent companies in relation to the activities of their overseas subsidiaries. We have been, and could in the future be, exposed to the risk of such claims, the defence of which can be complex and costly. An adverse outcome may encourage follow-on litigation against the parent company. Non‑compliance with policies and regulations could result in regulatory investigations, litigation and, ultimately, sanctions. Certain governments and regulatory bodies have, in Shell's opinion, exceeded their constitutional authority by attempting unilaterally to amend or cancel existing agreements or arrangements; failing to honour existing contractual commitments; and seeking to adjudicate disputes between private litigants. Certain governments have also adopted laws and regulations that could potentially conflict with other countries' laws and regulations, potentially subjecting us to criminal and civil sanctions. It is also now common for persons or corporations allegedly injured by violations of laws to sue for damages. Violations of laws carry fines, which we have been subject to, and could be subject to in the future. Violations of laws could expose us and/or our employees to criminal sanctions, civil suits and other consequences, such as debarment and the revocation of licences. Accordingly, violation of laws, including those noted above, litigation and disputes could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. See "Living by our values" on pages 138-139 and Note 32 "Legal proceedings and other contingencies" on pages 286-288. 8. Reputation and licence to operate Risk type: Strategic risk Operational risk Conduct and culture risk An erosion of our business reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brand, our ability to secure new hydrocarbon or low-carbon opportunities, our ability to access capital markets attract and retain people, and our licence to operate. Risk description Our reputation is an important asset. Real or perceived failures of governance or regulatory compliance or a perceived lack of understanding of how our operations affect surrounding communities and the environment could harm our reputation. Societal expectations of companies are high, with a focus on business ethics, quality of products, contribution to society, safety and minimising negative impacts on the environment and people, including human rights. There is ongoing focus on the role of oil and gas companies in the context of climate change and the energy transition. NGOs continue to challenge Shell's licence to operate through activities to block or delay projects and by bringing legal actions, diverting our resources and potentially eroding trust. In some markets, we see protests at times at external events, including at our previous Annual General Meetings. Certain of our brand communications have been reviewed by advertising regulators in the UK and the Netherlands, and some of the complaints received were upheld. During prolonged periods of high oil and gas prices, the oil and gas industry has been accused in the past and could in the future be accused of profiteering from higher fuel and electricity prices and therefore impacting living costs. The materialisation of these risks has at times negatively affected, and could affect in the future, our brand and reputation, which could limit our ability to deliver our strategy; reduce consumer demand for our branded and non-branded products; harm our ability to secure new energy partnerships and contracts; and restrict our ability to access capital markets or attract staff. Individually or collectively, these risks could negatively affect our reputation and licence to operate and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. See "Living by our values" on pages 138-139 and "Our contribution to society" on pages 133-134. 29 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Risk factors and risk management continued 9. Our people and culture Risk type: Strategic risk Operational risk Conduct and culture risk The successful delivery of our strategy and achieving our vision [A] are dependent on our people and on a culture that aligns to our goals and reflects the changes we need to make as part of the energy transition. Risk description The successful delivery of our vision [A] to become the world's leading integrated energy company depends on our people and a performance culture that enables us to be competitive and resilient. We might not achieve our strategic ambitions and thrive through changes externally, if our organisational culture fails to continually adapt and evolve, while remaining anchored in our core values of honesty, integrity, and respect for people. We might not adequately adapt to external changes, including changing stakeholder expectations, the energy transition and AI developments. We also might not adequately evolve our business models and ways of working, and build new skills, while fostering individual resilience. As a result, we may become less competitive over time and lose the trust of our employees and of our external stakeholders, which may negatively impact our ability to achieve our ambitions. This could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. [A] A vision statement defines the desired future state of a company rather than a series of firm, binding commitments. See "This is Shell" on pages 17-19, "Our people" on pages 129-132 and "Living by our values" on pages 138-139. Investors should also consider the following, which could limit shareholder remedies. 10. Other (generally applicable to an investment in securities) The Company's Articles of Association determine the jurisdiction for shareholder disputes. This could limit shareholder remedies. Risk description Our Articles of Association generally require that all disputes between our shareholders in such capacity and the Company or our subsidiaries (or our Directors or former Directors), or between the Company and our Directors or former Directors, be exclusively resolved by arbitration in London, the United Kingdom. Our Articles of Association also provide that, if this provision were to be determined invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the dispute could only be brought before the courts of England and Wales. Accordingly, the ability of shareholders to obtain monetary or other relief, including in respect of securities law claims, could be determined in accordance with these provisions. 30 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Risk factors and risk management continued Risk management How we manage risks The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective risk management and internal control framework, and for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks that Shell is willing to take to achieve its long-term strategic objectives. Our approach to managing risk sits at the heart of the Shell Performance Framework and is embedded in the Improvement Cycle, which integrates performance management, risk management, learning and improvement. This approach is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve our business objectives and covers the areas below. See Shell Performance Framework on page 151. Risk identification We employ different methods to identify risks. These include monitoring external developments, such as policy changes and new regulations. We also assess changes in the internal operating context, such as monitoring incidents that have occurred across our activities to determine if these could give rise to new risks . We seek to identify and define risks across a spectrum of strategic, operational, conduct and culture risks. With strategic risks, we consider the current and future portfolio, examining parameters such as country concentration or our exposure to higher-risk countries. We consider long-range developments to test key assumptions or beliefs in relation to energy markets. When assessing operational risks, we consider exposures across our value chain. Through conduct and culture risks, we consider how our policies and practices align with our purpose, core values and desired behaviours. These perspectives help us to maintain a comprehensive view of the different types of risks we face and the different time horizons during which they may affect us. Risk assessment To further understand the risks we face, we evaluate the impact and likelihood of each risk occurring. This helps us to prioritise risks by understanding their significance to our strategy and objectives, individually and relative to other risks. When assessing the potential impact of a risk, we consider its materiality in terms of the possible financial consequences. We also consider the impacts on people, the environment and the communities where we operate, our reputation and our ability to comply with regulations. For example, the technical complexity of our operations gives rise to safety risks, which could result in injuries, loss of life, environmental harm and financial losses. When assessing the likelihood of a risk occurring, we consider several factors, such as our ability to prevent the risk from happening and whether the risk has occurred in the past. To support risk assessments, we also seek to establish and articulate our risk appetite, which is the level of risk that we are willing to accept in pursuit of Shell's strategy and objectives. We consider the resources available — such as financial resources, people, processes, systems and controls — that we are willing and able to allocate to manage each risk in pursuit of our objectives, and the impact on Shell's overall risk profile. The financial framework, which shapes Shell's financial resilience, sets an overarching boundary condition for risk appetite. Indicates information that supports TCFD disclosures. The impact and likelihood assessments, combined with risk appetite, determine the type of risk responses, such as controls and assurance activities, that may be necessary to manage each risk. 31 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Risk factors and risk management continued Risk response Risk responses are developed based on the assessment of impact, likelihood and risk appetite. Possible responses include: ￮ managing the risk by using appropriate processes and controls to maintain the risk within risk appetite. These processes and controls include, for example, the requirements and guidance in the Shell General Business Principles, Code of Conduct and our Group Standards, which establish the rules that are to be applied in all Shell companies and operations; ￮ transferring the risk, for example to insurance providers where possible and appropriate; and ￮ avoiding the risk, by stopping or exiting the activity that gives rise to the risk or doing the activity differently. We use internal assurance activities to objectively assess the effectiveness of our risk management activities and to improve them. Examples of how some risk factors are managed include: ￮ Country risks (see "Risk factors" 1d, on page 24): – We continually monitor geopolitical developments and societal issues relevant to our interests. Our Corporate Relations function liaises with governments and other external stakeholders in countries where we operate to understand and engage on local policies and to advocate Shell's position on topics relevant to our industry. We are prepared to exit a country if we believe we can no longer operate there in accordance with our standards and applicable law, and we have done so in the past. With regard to the crisis in the Middle East, ongoing at time of publication, we plan to continue to make appropriate adjustments to our operations in the region to reduce our exposure as we monitor developments. ￮ Joint arrangements (see "Risk factors" 1e, on page 25): – For major projects and operations where we share control, or where we do not have control or do not operate, we seek to proportionally share risks and funding commitments with joint-venture partners. Additionally, Shell appoints a Shell Shareholder representative, whose responsibility is to manage performance, and to create and protect value for Shell. The representative seeks to influence operators and other partners to adapt their practices in order to drive value appropriately and to mitigate identified risks. We perform regular risk assessments of our joint ventures, including how our joint ventures' standards align with those of Shell, and seek to influence to close any gaps identified ￮ Litigation and regulatory compliance (see "Risk factors" 7, on page 28): – Our Legal and Tax functions are organised globally and support our business lines in seeking to ensure compliance with local laws and fiscal regulations and proactively filing claims where warranted to protest unfair practices. Emerging risks Management and the Board also consider emerging risks. These are defined as risks where the scope, impact and likelihood are still uncertain, but which may have a significant effect on achieving Shell's strategy and objectives in the future. These are identified through the monitoring of external developments, the status of risk indicators, learnings from incidents and assurance findings, and the appraisal of Shell's forward-looking plans. Once identified, we undertake activities to monitor, prepare for and plan appropriate responses, should such emerging risks occur. In 2025, management and the Board considered the emerging risks presented by the pace and evolution of digital technological developments in areas such as artificial intelligence and quantum computing, given their potential impacts, for example, on cyber security. Management and the Board also considered how technological developments present potential opportunities for transforming how Shell operates. The Board continued to consider the risks from ongoing geopolitical tensions and their potential impacts on Shell. Management and Board risk reviews Throughout the year, each business and function regularly reviews its risk profile, risk responses and assurance activities to ensure that significant risks are managed effectively. The Board, Board committees and management also regularly review Shell's principal risks or risk factors, conducting deeper dives on individual risks, as appropriate. These reviews support them in assessing the effectiveness of existing risk management activities, and whether changes may be needed. In 2025, we also considered readiness for compliance with the new Provision 29 of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code which, among other things, will require the Board to make a declaration of the effectiveness of Shell's material controls in the 2026 Annual Report. See "Governance framework" on pages 149-153 for other Board and Board committee responsibilities on risk management. Indicates information that supports TCFD disclosures. 32 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report Performance in the year Performance indicators These indicators enable management to evaluate Shell's performance against our annual Operating Plan. They are also used as part of determining Executive Directors' remuneration. See "Directors' Remuneration Report" on pages 169-175. Progress to date on targets included at Capital Markets Day in June 2025 and Energy Transition strategy in March 2024 is available at shell.com. Financial delivery Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion) Total cash receipts and payments associated with oil, gas, chemicals and other product sales. This reflects our ability to generate cash to service and reduce debt, invest and make shareholder distributions. 2025 performance The decrease was primarily driven by lower earnings, despite stronger operational performance, due to a lower price environment and working capital outflows. See "Liquidity and capital resources" on pages 38-41. Safety Personal safety (FPI-F cases per 100 million working hours) Fatality and permanent impairment (FPI) is defined as a serious work-related injury or illness that resulted in a fatality or permanent impairment. For FPI frequency (FPI-F), the number of FPI employee and contractor incidents is divided by 100 million working hours. 2025 performance There can be no compromise on safety. Last year's four fatalities and four serious injuries remind us that everyone must go home safely. With outcomes declining versus the prior year, we must further strengthen our safety focus. Process safety (number of Tier 1 and Tier 2 events) Operational process safety events are defined as the unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from a process with the greatest actual consequence resulting in harm to employees, contract staff, a neighbouring community, or damage to equipment, or exceeding a threshold quantity. 2025 performance Notable improvement in process safety tiered events was mainly driven by our Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions businesses. We are actively addressing remaining challenges by enhancing operational discipline, reinforcing focus on core fundamentals, and leveraging new technologies. For details on our safety performance see "Safety" on pages 126-128 . Shell's journey in the energy transition LNG volumes (million tonnes) Shell's share of sales of equity LNG volumes from liquefaction plants owned by Shell subsidiaries, Shell joint ventures and associates, and Shell's share of LNG produced from liquefaction plants which operate under tolling arrangements with Shell. 2025 performance LNG liquefaction volumes decreased mainly due to ownership restructuring in Trinidad and Tobago and higher maintenance across the portfolio. See "Integrated Gas" on pages 45-51. Reducing operational emissions (Scope 1 and 2; thousand tonnes CO 2 e) Operational emission reductions achieved from greenhouse gas (GHG) abatement projects (e.g. reduced flaring, increased energy efficiency, and use of renewable electricity), site closures and decommissioning or transformations, resulting in sustained GHG reductions. 2025 performance This year's stronger performance was mainly supported by multiple transformation projects at the Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland in Germany, compressor electrification in Canada, and catalyst improvements in Qatar (IG). See "Less emissions" on pages 89-117. Electric vehicle (EV) charge points (thousand) Number of public electric vehicle charge points owned, controlled or Shell-branded. 2025 performance The increase in electric vehicle charge points in 2025 was mainly driven by growth in China and Ubitricity's portfolio in the UK. See "Marketing" on pages 69-73. [A] FPI-F for 2024 has been revised from 1.5 to 1.7. See safety performance on page 128. [B] Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety incidents for 2024 has been revised from 90 to 89. See safety performance on page 128. [C] Adjusted to exclude around 4,000 electric vehicle charge points divested, effective January 2, 2026. 33 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Performance indicators continued Operational excellence Upstream controllable availability (%) This reflects our ability to optimally run our Upstream assets and includes all Shell-operated assets and selected assets not operated by Shell but for which Shell has strategic influence. It excludes the impact of extreme unexpected events that are outside our control, such as government restrictions and hurricanes. Reliability issues, turnarounds and maintenance at own-operated or third-party facilities impact controllable availability. 2025 performance Upstream controllable availability increased compared to last year, particularly in Kazakhstan, Brunei, Nigeria and Oman. Midstream availability (%) The extent to which LNG assets are ready to process product as a comparison with capacity, considering the impact of planned and unplanned maintenance. 2025 performance Overall performance declined compared to last year due to higher planned maintenance activities across the portfolio. Refinery and chemical plant availability (%) Weighted average of plants' actual uptime, as a percentage of their maximum possible uptime, is a measure of the operational excellence of our refinery and chemical plant facilities. Refining and Chemicals are assigned equal weights. 2025 performance This year's improvements were driven primarily by strong performance at Deer Park Chemicals and improved performance at Shell Polymers Monaca, supported by enhanced results at the Rheinland and Scotford refineries. See "Chemicals and Products" on pages 74-80. Project delivery on schedule (%) Our capability to complete major projects on time, measured as the percentage of projects delivered on schedule. 2025 performance The score improved, with highlights for the year including the successful start-up of 21 projects, notably Whale in the Gulf of America, Penguins in the UK, Mero-4 in Brazil and the first export cargo from LNG Canada. Project delivery on budget (%) Aggregate cost against the aggregate baseline for those projects where a figure greater than 100% means over budget. 2025 performance The score improved, reflecting steady progress and strong overall performance across ongoing projects. Customer satisfaction (index) This quantitative measurement of customer experience performance is calculated as an average of customer satisfaction scores from the global business-to-business transactional survey programme. 2025 performance This year's improvements reflected focus on performance, continuous improvement of e-commerce platforms, and the resilience of our teams. Brand Share Preference (%) The percentage of customers answering "Shell" when asked: "Assuming that all the fuel station companies that you would consider are conveniently located, which one company do you prefer most?" The responses are taken from survey respondents in more than 60 countries covering both fuel and non-fuel retail consumers. 2025 performance Our Brand Share Preference continued to rise, performing well in all regions. The improvement was mainly driven by Asia. 34 Shell Form 20-F 2025 More value We will drive improved performance, embed cost and capital discipline, and make fundamental decisions across our portfolio to deliver more value for our shareholders through a progressive dividend policy and by prioritising share buybacks. In 2025, we delivered solid financial results with Adjusted Earnings* of $18.5 billion despite a lower price environment. Our performance was driven by strong operational performance, LNG sales growth and portfolio optimisation. Cash flow from operations remained robust, enabling consistent shareholder distributions. We maintained disciplined capital allocation and achieved structural cost reductions with cumulative savings of $5.1 billion since 2022. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. 36 Group results 38 Liquidity and capital resources 42 Market overview 45 Integrated Gas 52 Upstream 61 Oil and gas information 69 Marketing 74 Chemicals and Products 81 Renewables and Energy Solutions 86 Corporate 87 Innovation and Technology 35 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value Group results Key metrics $ million, except where indicated 2025 2024 2023 Income attributable to Shell plc shareholders 17,837 16,094 19,359 Income for the period 18,119 16,521 19,636 Adjusted Earnings*[A] [B] [C] 18,528 23,716 28,250 Adjusted EBITDA*[B] 56,135 65,803 68,538 Cash flow from operating activities 42,863 54,687 54,191 Cash flow from investing activities (16,811) (15,155) (17,734) Free cash flow* 26,052 39,533 36,457 Cash capital expenditure 20,915 21,085 24,392 Operating expenses 35,675 36,917 39,960 Underlying operating expenses* [D] 35,032 35,707 39,201 ROACE on an Adjusted Earnings plus non-controlling interest basis* 9.4% 11.3% 12.8% Total debt at December 31 [E] 75,643 77,078 81,541 Net debt* at December 31 [E] 45,687 38,809 43,542 Gearing* at December 31 20.7% 17.7% 18.8% Oil and gas production available for sale (thousand boe/d) 2,800 2,836 2,791 Basic earnings per share ($) 3.03 2.55 2.88 Adjusted Earnings per share* ($) 3.15 3.76 4.20 Dividend per share ($) 1.446 1.390 1.294 [A] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 243-251. [B] Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis and exclude identified items, see Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 243-251 and "Non-GAAP measures" on pages 323-328. [C] Adjusted Earnings exclude the non-controlling interest component. [D] The most comparable GAAP financial measure is Production and manufacturing expenses (2025: $21,898 million; 2024: $23,379 million). [E] See Note 21 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 262-263. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. “In 2025 our strong operational performance drove solid financial results across Shell, with robust cash flows despite the lower price environment.” Sinead Gorman Chief Financial Officer Income/(loss) for the period [A] $ million Segment Adjusted Earnings*[A] [B] $ million 36 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Group results continued 2025 earnings Income attributable to Shell plc shareholders in 2025 was $17,837 million, compared with $16,094 million in 2024. With non-controlling interest included, income for the period in 2025 was $18,119 million, compared with $16,521 million in 2024. Income for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items and current cost of supplies adjustment of $641 million. Adjusted Earnings* in 2025 were $18,528 million, compared with $23,716 million in 2024. The decrease was mainly driven by lower realised liquids and LNG prices, lower trading and optimisation and lower Chemicals margins, partly offset by higher volumes, lower operating expenses, favourable tax movements and higher Marketing margins. Identified items in 2025 amounted to a net loss of $53 million and included impairment charges; gains on disposal of assets, mainly related to the incorporation of the Adura Energy Limited joint venture in the UK; and favourable movements due to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. This compares with identified items in 2024 which amounted to a net loss of $7,364 million. For details of earnings by segment see "Integrated Gas" on page 45, "Upstream" on page 52, "Marketing" on page 69, "Chemicals and Products" on page 74, "Renewables and Energy Solutions" on page 81 and "Corporate" on page 86. Prior year earnings Income attributable to Shell plc shareholders in 2024 was $16,094 million, compared with $19,359 million in 2023. With non-controlling interest included, income for the period in 2024 was $16,521 million, compared with $19,636 million in 2023. Income for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items and current cost of supplies adjustment of $272 million. Adjusted Earnings* in 2024 were $23,716 million, compared with $28,250 million in 2023. The decrease was mainly driven by lower LNG trading and optimisation margins, lower realised prices, lower refining margins as well as lower trading and optimisation margins of power and pipeline gas in Renewables and Energy Solutions, partly offset by lower operating expenses and higher realised Chemicals margins. Identified items in 2024 amounted to a net loss of $7,364 million and included net impairment charges and reversals, reclassifications from equity to profit and loss of cumulative currency translation differences related to funding structures, unfavourable movements relating to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives, and charges related to redundancy and restructuring. This compares with identified items in 2023 which amounted to a net loss of $8,242 million. Discussions relating to amounts related to financial year ended December 31, 2023 can be found in the Form 20-F (page 40) for the year ended December 31, 2024, as filed with the SEC. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA, for 2025 and 2024, was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and excludes taxation, exploration well write-offs and depreciation, depletion and amortisation expenses for the relevant years. Cash flow from operating activities See "Liquidity and capital resources" on page 38. Cash capital expenditure See "Liquidity and capital resources" on page 38 and "Less emissions" on pages 98-99. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. Operating expenses and Underlying operating expenses Operating expenses were $35,675 million in 2025, compared with $36,917 million in 2024. Underlying operating expenses* were $35,032 million, compared with $35,707 million in 2024. These decreases were mainly driven by structural cost reductions delivered through portfolio changes, operational efficiencies, a leaner corporate centre and faster value-based decision-making. Return on average capital employed (ROACE) on an Adjusted Earnings plus non-controlling interest basis Our ROACE on an Adjusted Earnings plus non-controlling interest basis * decreased to 9.4% , compared with 11.3% in 2024, mainly driven by lower earnings. Significant accounting estimates and judgements See Note 2 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 218-228. Legal proceedings See Note 32 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 286-288. Production available for sale Oil and gas production available for sale in 2025 was 2,800 thousand boe/d, compared with 2,836 thousand boe/d in 2024. This decrease was mainly driven by divestments and field decline, partly offset by new production. Oil and gas production available for sale [A][B] Thousand boe/d 2025 2024 2023 Crude oil and natural gas liquids 1,494 1,452 1,454 Synthetic crude oil [C] 41 51 52 Natural gas [D] 1,265 1,333 1,285 Total 2,800 2,836 2,791 Of which: Integrated Gas 931 954 939 Upstream 1,828 1,831 1,800 Oil sands (part of Chemicals and Products) [C] 41 51 52 [A] See "Oil and gas information" on pages 61-68. [B] Reflects 100% of production of subsidiaries except in respect of production-sharing contracts (PSC), where the figures shown represent the entitlement of the subsidiaries concerned under those contracts. [C] In November 2025, we completed the agreement in Canada to swap our remaining 10% mining interest and associated synthetic crude oil reserves in exchange for an additional 10% interest in the Scotford upgrader and Quest Carbon Capture (CCS) facility. [D] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel. Proved reserves The proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and the Shell share of the proved oil and gas reserves of joint ventures and associates are summarised in "Oil and gas information" on pages 61-68 and set out in more detail in "Supplementary information – oil and gas (unaudited)" on pages 291-309. Before taking production into account, our proved reserves decreased by 427 million boe in 2025. Acquisitions and divestments accounted for a net decrease of 1,203 million boe, largely related to the swap transaction involving our synthetic crude oil reserves in Canada (see "Chemicals and Products" on page 74) and the divestment of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC). Total oil and gas production was 1,070 million boe. Accordingly, after taking production into account, our proved reserves decreased by 1,497 million boe in 2025, to 8,123 million boe at December 31, 2025. 37 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value Liquidity and capital resources Liquidity and capital resources Shell generated free cash flow*of $26.1 billion in 2025, aided by disciplined capital management, portfolio simplification and operational performance improvements. Net debt* increased to $45.7 billion at December 31, 2025 (December 31, 2024: $38.8 billion). Net debt excluding leases* increased to 16.8 billion (December 31, 2024: 10.1 billion). Total debt decreased to $75.6 billion at December 31, 2025 (December 31, 2024: $77.1 billion). Gearing* increased to 20.7% at December 31, 2025, compared with 17.7% at December 31, 2024. Cash and cash equivalents were $30.2 billion at December 31, 2025 (December 31, 2024: $39.1 billion). See Note 21 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 262-263. Liquidity Shell satisfies its funding, liquidity and working capital requirements by using cash generated from our operations, taking on debt and through divestments. In 2025, access to the international debt capital markets remained strong, with Shell's debt principally financed from these markets through central debt programmes consisting of: ￮ two $10 billion commercial paper (CP) programmes, with maturities between 183 days and 364 days depending on the form of the notes issued; ￮ an unlimited Euro medium-term note (EMTN) programme (also referred to as the Multi-Currency Debt Securities Programme), which lapsed in November 2024, and was renewed in May 2025; and ￮ an unlimited US universal shelf (US shelf) registration. The debt issued under the CP, EMTN and US shelf has historically been issued by Shell International Finance B.V., the primary issuance company for Shell, with its debt being guaranteed by Shell plc. In 2023, Shell incorporated a new US subsidiary, Shell Finance US Inc., and in 2024 and 2025 a portion of the debt issued by Shell International Finance B.V. and BG Energy Capital plc (for 2025) was moved into this entity through exchange offers. Additionally, Shell Finance US Inc. issued new debt in November 2025, which is guaranteed by Shell plc. We expect any new debt issued under the CP programmes, EMTN or US shelf to be guaranteed by Shell plc. We also maintain an $8 billion committed credit facility with initial maturity in 2030, however extension options may take final maturity to 2032. This remained fully undrawn at December 31, 2025. This facility replaces the previous $8 billion facility due to mature in December 2026. This core facility and cash on balance sheet provide backup coverage for our CP programmes. Other than certain borrowings by subsidiaries in their local jurisdictions, we do not have any other committed credit facilities. Our total debt decreased by $1.4 billion to $75.6 billion at December 31, 2025. The total debt excluding lease liabilities matures as follows: 10% in 2026; 6% in 2027; 13% in 2028 and 71% in 2029 and beyond. Debt maturing in 2026 is expected to be repaid from a combination of cash balances, cash generated from operations, divestments and the issuance of new debt. In 2025, we did not issue any debt under the EMTN programme or CP programmes, while issuing $2.35 billion under the US shelf. The Group had no CP outstanding at December 31, 2025. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. While our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions, such as foreign withholding taxes on the transfer of funds in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances, such restrictions are not expected to have a material impact on our ability to meet our cash obligations. Management believes it has access to sufficient debt funding sources (capital markets) and to undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet foreseeable requirements. Market risk, credit risk and pension commitments Financial risks We use various financial instruments for managing exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate movements. Our treasury operations are highly centralised and seek to manage credit exposures associated with our substantial cash, foreign exchange and interest rate positions. Our portfolio of cash investments is diversified to avoid concentrating risk in any one instrument, country or counterparty. Other than in exceptional cases, the use of external derivative instruments is confined to our specialist trading and central treasury organisations that have the appropriate skills, experience, supervision, control and reporting systems. We operate with procedures and policies designed to help ensure that trading risks are managed within a prescribed control framework. The framework sets out authorised limits and requirements that trading should only be performed by employees with the appropriate skills and experience. Senior management regularly reviews these authorised trading limits. In addition, a department that is independent from our traders monitors our market risk exposures daily, using techniques such as value-at-risk alongside other risk metrics. We have counterparty credit risk policies in place which seek to help ensure that products are sold to customers with appropriate creditworthiness. These policies include detailed credit analysis and monitoring of customers against counterparty credit limits. Where appropriate, netting arrangements, credit insurance, prepayments and collateral are used to manage credit risk. A pensions forum chaired by the Chief Financial Officer oversees Shell's input to pension strategy, policy and operation. A risk committee supports the forum in reviewing the results of assurance processes with respect to pension risk. Local trustees manage the funded defined benefit pension plans and set the strategic asset allocation for the plans, including the extent to which currency, interest rate, inflation and longevity risks are hedged. Contributions paid are based on independent actuarial valuations that align with applicable local regulations. Pension fund liquidity is managed by holding appropriate liquid assets and maintaining credit facilities. We also consider opportunities to insure pension liabilities with third parties to reduce this risk. On July 1, 2023, new pension legislation came into effect in the Netherlands, with implementation required prior to January 1, 2028. In July 2025, the Trustee Board of Shell's defined benefit pension fund in the Netherlands formally accepted the transition plan, related to the changes in pension legislation, to transition from a defined benefit pension fund to a defined contribution plan with effect from January 1, 2027, subject to the local funding level of the plan remaining above an agreed level (125%) during the predetermined transition period. Our total employer contributions were $0.6 billion in 2025 and are estimated to be $1.1 billion in 2026, including a minimum final payment of $0.3 billion in the Dutch pensions to transform from the defined benefit plan into a defined contribution. See "Risk factors" on page 26, and Note 24 and Note 26 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 268-274 and 276-282. 38 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Liquidity and capital resources continued Capitalisation table $ million December 31, 2025 December 31, 2024 Equity attributable to Shell plc shareholders 174,392 178,307 Current debt 9,128 11,630 Non-current debt 66,515 65,448 Total debt [A] 75,643 77,078 Total capitalisation 250,035 255,385 [A] Of total debt of $75.6 billion (2024: $77.1 billion), $46.3 billion (2024: $48.1 billion) was unsecured and $29.3 billion (2024: $29.0 billion) was secured; $45.0 billion is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Shell plc (December 31, 2024: $46.0 billion), with the following amounts issued by Shell Group subsidiaries: $22.6 billion by Shell International Finance B.V., a wholly owned finance subsidiary of Shell plc (December 31, 2024: $31.8 billion); $20.1 billion by Shell Finance US Inc., a wholly owned finance subsidiary of Shell plc (December 31, 2024: $11.4 billion); and $2.3 billion by BG Energy Capital plc (December 31, 2024: $2.8 billion). See Note 21 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 262 for further disclosure on total debt and net debt. Guarantees and other off-balance sheet arrangements There were no guarantees or other off-balance sheet arrangements at December 31, 2025, or December 31, 2024 that were reasonably likely to have a material impact on Shell. See Note 26 and Note 32 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 276 and 286 for further details on guarantees or other off-balance sheet arrangements where the potential obligations related to issuance are assessed to be remote. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Cash flow from operating activities (CFFO) in 2025 was $42.9 billion, compared with $54.7 billion in 2024. CFFO in 2025 was primarily driven by Adjusted EBITDA of $56.1 billion (compared with $65.8 billion in 2024) and inflows from dividends (net of profits) received from joint ventures and associates of $2.6 billion (compared with outflows of $0.3 billion in 2024), partly offset by tax payments of $11.6 billion (compared with payments of $12.0 billion in 2024) and working capital outflows of $1.8 billion (compared with inflows of $2.1 billion in 2024). Cash flow from investing activities in 2025 was an outflow of $16.8 billion, compared with an outflow of $15.2 billion in 2024. Cash flow from investing activities in 2025 included cash capital expenditure of $20.9 billion (compared with cash capital expenditure of $21.1 billion in 2024) , partly offset by divestment proceeds * of $2.4 billion (compared with divestment proceeds* of $2.8 billion in 2024) and interest received of $ 2.0 billion (compared with interest received of $2.4 billion in 2024). Cash flow from financing activities in 2025 was an outflow of $35.8 billion, compared with outflows of $38.4 billion in 2024. This included the repurchases of shares of $13.9 billion (2024: $13.9 billion), net repayments of debt of $9.1 billion (2024: $9.6 billion net repayment), dividends paid to Shell plc shareholders of $8.5 billion (2024: $8.7 billion), interest paid of $4.1 billion (2024: $4.6 billion) and favourable debt-related derivative financial instrument movements of $1.3 billion (2024: $0.6 billion unfavourable movement). * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. Prior year Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the financial year ended December 31, 2024, compared with the financial year ended December 31, 2023, can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts (page 25) and Form 20-F (page 42) for the year ended December 31, 2024, as filed with the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales and the US Securities and Exchange Commission, respectively. See "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows" on page 217. Cash flow from operating activities The most significant factors affecting Shell's CFFO are earnings, which are mainly impacted by: realised prices for crude oil, natural gas and LNG; production levels of crude oil, natural gas and LNG; chemicals, refining and marketing margins; timing of dividend payments from joint ventures and associates and movements in working capital and derivative financial instruments. The impact on earnings from changes in market prices depends on: the extent to which contractual arrangements are tied to market prices; the dynamics of production-sharing contracts; the existence of agreements with governments or state-owned oil and gas companies that have limited sensitivity to crude oil and natural gas prices; tax impacts; and the extent to which changes in commodity prices flow through into operating expenses. Changes in benchmark prices of crude oil and natural gas in any particular period provide only a broad indicator of changes in our Integrated Gas and Upstream earnings in that period. Changes in any factors, from within the industry or the broader economic environment, can and have influenced refining and marketing margins. The precise impact of any changes depends on how the oil markets respond to them. The market response is affected by factors such as: whether the change affects all crude oil types or only a specific grade; regional and global crude oil and refined products inventories; and the collective speed of response of refiners and product marketers in adjusting their operations. As a result, margins fluctuate from region to region and from period to period. Divestment and cash capital expenditure The levels of divestment proceeds and cash capital expenditure in 2025 and 2024 reflect our discipline and focus as we continue to implement our strategy. Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and businesses were $1.1 billion for 2025, compared with $1.6 billion in 2024. Divestment proceeds* for 2025 were $2.4 billion, compared with $2.8 billion in 2024. Cash capital expenditure split by segment is presented in the table below: Cash capital expenditure [A] $ million 2025 2024 2023 Integrated Gas 4,689 4,767 4,196 Upstream 9,316 7,890 8,343 Marketing [B] 1,862 2,445 5,790 Chemicals and Products 3,063 3,290 3,014 Renewables and Energy Solutions 1,866 2,549 2,681 Corporate 119 144 368 Total cash capital expenditure 20,915 21,085 24,392 [A] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 243-251. [B] Includes acquisition of Nature Energy in 2023. 39 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Liquidity and capital resources continued Capital employed Capital employed was $220.7 billion in 2025, compared with $218.1 billion in 2024, of which $20.3 billion related to lower-carbon platforms, including power (both gas-fired and from renewable energy), low-carbon fuels, hydrogen, and carbon capture and storage [A]. [A] Gas is a lower-carbon alternative to coal in power generation. Contractual obligations The table below summarises Shell's principal contractual obligations at December 31, 2025, by expected settlement period. The amounts presented have not been offset by any committed third-party revenue in relation to these obligations. Contractual obligations $ billion Less than 1 year Between 1 and 3 years Between 3 and 5 years 5 years and later Total Debt [A] 4.5 9.0 6.7 26.8 47.0 Leases 6.3 9.6 6.3 20.0 42.2 Purchase obligations [B] 23.8 25.0 17.6 69.8 136.2 Other long-term contractual liabilities [C] — 1.1 0.2 0.5 1.7 Total 34.6 44.6 30.8 117.2 227.2 [A] See Note 21 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 262-263. Debt contractual obligations exclude interest, which is estimated to be $1.4 billion payable in less than one year, $2.7 billion between one and three years, $2.3 billion between three and five years, and $11.6 billion in five years and later. For this purpose, we assume that interest rates with respect to variable interest rate debt remain constant at the rates in effect at December 31, 2025, and that there is no change in the aggregate principal amount of debt other than repayment at scheduled maturity as reflected in the table. Lease contractual obligations include interest. [B] Purchase obligations disclosed in the above table exclude commodity purchase obligations that are not fixed or determinable and are principally intended to be resold in a short period of time through sale agreements with third parties. Examples include long-term non-cancellable LNG and natural gas purchase commitments and commitments to purchase refined products or crude oil at market prices. Inclusion of such commitments would not be meaningful in measuring liquidity and cash flow, as the cash outflows generated by these purchases will generally be offset in the same periods by cash received from the related sales transactions. [C] Includes obligations included in "Trade and other payables" and provisions related to onerous contracts included in "Decommissioning and other provisions" in "Non-current liabilities" in the "Consolidated Balance Sheet" that are contractually fixed as to timing and amount. In addition to these amounts, Shell has certain obligations that are not contractually fixed as to timing and amount, including contributions to defined benefit pension plans (see Note 24 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 268-274) and obligations associated with decommissioning and restoration (see Note 25 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 275). Shareholder distributions We returned $8.5 billion to our shareholders through dividends and $13.9 billion through share buybacks in 2025. Total shareholder distributions represented 52% of CFFO*. The fourth quarter 2025 dividend of $0.372 per ordinary share will be paid on March 30, 2026, to shareholders on the register at February 20, 2026, and represents an increase of 4% compared with the third quarter 2025 dividend. See Note 30 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 286. Purchases of securities The intent to purchase shares was announced alongside the quarterly results during 2025, and covered the period up until the next quarterly announcement. In 2025, share buybacks of $3.5 billion were announced on January 30, $3.5 billion on May 2, $3.5 billion on July 31 and $3.5 billion on October 30 (finalised in the first quarter of 2026). In addition, on February 5, 2026, a further buyback of $3.5 billion was announced along with the fourth quarter 2025 results; it is intended that this will be completed by the announcement date of the first quarter 2026 results. During 2025, 396.4 million ordinary shares were purchased and cancelled. Overall, a total nominal share value of €28 million ($33 million), 6.5% of the Company's total issued share capital at December 31, 2024, was purchased and cancelled during 2025 for a total cost of $13.9 billion, including expenses, at an average price of $35.01 per share. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. The buybacks completed in the first half of 2025 were in accordance with the authorities granted by shareholders at the 2024 Annual General Meeting (AGM). The buybacks completed in the second half of 2025 were in accordance with the authorities granted by shareholders at the 2025 AGM. At the 2025 AGM, authority was granted for the Company to repurchase up to a maximum of 10% of its issued ordinary shares, excluding treasury shares, (602.1 million ordinary shares), both on and off market, allowing purchases on the Amsterdam as well as London exchanges. As at December 31, 2025, 444 million ordinary shares could still be repurchased under the current AGM authorities. The purpose of the share repurchases in 2025 was to reduce the issued share capital of the Company. New resolutions will be proposed at the 2026 AGM to renew the authority for the Company to purchase its own share capital, up to specified limits, for a further year. These proposals will be described in more detail in the 2026 Notice of Annual General Meeting. Shares are also purchased by the employee share ownership trusts and trust-like entities (see Note 28 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 283) to meet delivery commitments under employee share plans. All share purchases are made in open market transactions. The table on the next page provides information on purchases of shares in 2025 and January 2026 by the Company and affiliated purchasers. Purchases in euros and sterling are converted into dollars using the exchange rate on each transaction date. 40 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Liquidity and capital resources continued Purchases of equity securities by issuer and affiliated purchasers in 2025 [A] Euro shares GBP shares ADSs [B] Purchase period Number purchased for employee share plans Number purchased for cancellation [C] Weighted average price ($) [D] Number purchased for employee share plans Number purchased for cancellation [C] Weighted average price ($) [D] Number purchased for employee share plans Weighted average price ($) [E] January 5,446,429 13,269,767 32.91 1,271,425 19,923,745 32.68 2,047,363 64.83 February — 13,818,237 33.48 — 20,965,300 33.28 145,052 67.09 March — 12,832,246 34.50 — 19,029,647 34.30 19,502 72.38 April — 13,715,246 32.70 — 20,901,741 32.51 — — May — 18,301,000 33.13 — 17,269,123 32.96 — — June — 16,936,000 35.21 — 17,307,000 35.05 18,967 70.49 July — 16,369,805 35.71 — 17,188,643 35.55 35,388 70.32 August — 16,083,942 36.17 — 15,620,239 35.97 — — September 3,480,500 17,643,903 36.11 763,300 17,966,650 35.93 19,142 71.88 October 3,105,000 14,970,561 36.77 676,000 15,204,467 36.64 43,971 75.75 November 2,995,123 14,681,496 37.24 664,354 14,716,512 37.14 819,888 74.73 December — 15,566,925 36.49 — 15,686,468 36.40 865,562 72.94 Total 2025 15,027,052 184,189,128 35.10 3,375,079 211,779,535 34.71 4,014,835 68.95 January 441,451 15,810,185 36.62 159,120 15,915,726 36.53 576,983 74.67 Total 2026 441,451 15,810,185 36.62 159,120 15,915,726 36.53 576,983 74.67 [A] Reported as at transaction date. [B] American Depositary Shares. [C] Under the share buyback programme. [D] Includes stamp duty and brokers' commission. [E] Includes brokers' commission. Financial information relating to the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust The results of the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust (the Trust) are included in the consolidated results of operations and financial position of Shell. Certain condensed financial information in respect of the Trust is given below. The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited and BG Group Limited have each issued a dividend access share to Computershare Trustees (Jersey) Limited (the Trustee). For the years 2025, 2024 and 2023, the Trust recorded income before tax of £nil, £nil and £nil respectively. In each period, this reflected the amount of dividends payable on the dividend access shares. Dividends are also classified as unclaimed where amounts have not cleared recipient bank accounts. At December 31, 2025, the Trust had total equity of £nil (December 31, 2024: £nil; December 31, 2023: £nil), reflecting assets of £2 million (December 31, 2024: £3 million; December 31, 2023: £4 million) and unclaimed dividends of £2 million (December 31, 2024: £3 million; December 31, 2023: £4 million). The Trust only records a liability for an unclaimed dividend to the extent that dividend cheque payments have not been presented within 12 months, have expired or have been returned unpresented. As these unclaimed dividends relate to dividends that were announced by the Company during the period the Company was still named Royal Dutch Shell plc, and it is expected that the Company will not announce any further dividends on the dividend access shares, the Trust continues to be named the Royal Dutch Shell Dividend Access Trust. On January 29, 2022, one line of shares was established through assimilation of each A share and each B share into one ordinary share of the Company. This assimilation had no impact on voting rights or dividend entitlements. Dutch withholding tax, applied previously on dividends on A shares, no longer applies on dividends paid on the ordinary shares following the assimilation. In relation to the assimilation of the Company's A and B shares, the Trust will continue in existence for the foreseeable future to facilitate the payment of unclaimed dividend liabilities for shareholders of the former B shares until these are either claimed or forfeited in line with the terms outlined. Dividends which are unclaimed after six years are forfeited and unconditionally revert to The Shell Transport and Trading Company Limited and BG Group Limited, as appropriate. 41 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value Market overview Shell maintains a large and diversified business portfolio across an integrated value chain. We are exposed to fluctuating prices of crude oil, natural gas, oil products, chemicals and power. However, our diversified portfolio provides resilience when prices are volatile. Our annual planning cycle and periodic portfolio reviews aim to ensure that our levels of capital investment and operating expenses are appropriate in the context of a volatile price environment. See "Risk factors" on page 23. We prepare an annual financial plan that tests different scenarios and their impact on prices, and on our businesses and organisation as a whole. These scenarios help us determine which issues could affect our operating environment and have implications for our strategy. They also help us to identify potential interventions to preserve our cash levels. We continually assess the external environment --- the markets and the underlying economic, political, social and environmental drivers that shape them -- to evaluate changes in competitive forces. We define multiple potential future scenarios and business environments by identifying drivers, uncertainties, enablers and constraints to our competitiveness. We also continually screen for new opportunities globally through our opportunity identification process. We test the resilience of our opportunities against a range of prices and costs for crude oil, natural gas, oil products, chemicals and power. These tests are based on short-, medium- and long-term market drivers, such as the extent and pace of the energy transition. Our opportunities are then ranked, prioritised and tested for strategic fit and value return expectations before being included in our growth funnel. Global economic growth Global economic disruption and uncertainty characterised 2025. In April of that year, the USA announced a series of broad-based and substantive import tariffs. The USA raised the average effective import tariff from just below 2% at the end of 2024 to around 15% at the end of 2025, triggering trade policy uncertainty. Meanwhile, public spending and debt sustainability concerns emerged for several major economies, as a result of a more stimulative fiscal policy stance or failure to curb public spending. Despite the disruption and uncertainty, the global economy remained resilient in 2025. Following its initial import tariff announcements, the USA negotiated trade deals with various countries and provided exemptions for certain goods categories. The private sector also proved agile, with companies front-loading imports and re-routing trade flows and supply chains. The potential of AI to boost future productivity and economic growth supported a boom in related investments, including electricity infrastructure and generation. This mitigated some of the downside effects of trade policy uncertainty and public finance concerns. As a result, economic activity remained positive, further enabled by broadly looser monetary and fiscal policies as interest rates fell and fiscal stimulus policies were put in place in many economies. The IMF, in its World Economic Outlook published in January 2026, estimated global economic growth in 2025 to be 3.3% year on year, equal to the 2024 outcome but below the pre-pandemic average (2000-2019) of 3.7%. Growth in the USA held up at 2.1% -- lower than the 2.8% growth recorded the previous year -- but with some of the import tariff impact and uncertainty offset by increased investments in AI technologies and related infrastructure. Economic performance in the Eurozone was mixed, with southern Europe more robust as a result of strong private consumption, tourism inflows and EU grants and northern Europe facing headwinds from loss of industry competitiveness to China, despite higher infrastructure and defence spending. China responded to higher tariffs imposed by the USA by re-routing and redirecting exports to Asia, Africa and Europe, resulting in a record trade surplus. The Chinese government also ratcheted up policy support, although the domestic economy — from the housing sector to retail sales — disappointed. Emerging economies benefited from lower interest rates, depreciation of the US dollar and improving policy frameworks — such as greater exchange rate flexibility — which enhanced their capacity to absorb shocks. Among the emerging economies, India continued to lead, thanks to strong household consumption and company investment. Global consumer price growth was generally contained as declines in emerging markets' inflation offset a slight goods-driven pick-up in inflation in advanced economies. But, in many countries, the cost of living in 2025 was significantly higher than before the pandemic. In the USA, firms accumulated inventories during the first half of 2025 as a result of tariff front-running, allowing them to delay price increases. Inflation cooled in the Eurozone, although wage pressures and services inflation remained persistent. In China, consumer price inflation remained at very low levels, stemming from overcapacity in industry, weakness in the housing sector, and relatively high savings. Global prices, demand and supply The following table provides an overview of the main crude oil and natural gas price markers to which Shell is exposed. Oil and gas average industry prices [A] 2025 2024 2023 Brent ($/b) 69.1 80.8 82.6 West Texas Intermediate ($/b) 64.9 75.9 77.7 Henry Hub ($/MMBtu) 3.5 2.2 2.5 EU TTF ($/MMBtu) 11.9 11.0 13.0 Japan Customs-cleared Crude ($/b) - 3 months 76.1 87.5 88.7 [A] The 2025 average price for Japan Customs-cleared Crude is based on available market information up to the end of the period. Brent, West Texas Intermediate and EU TTF yearly average prices are based on daily spot prices. Henry Hub and Japan Customs-cleared Crude yearly average prices are based on monthly average prices. At the time of this Report's publication, world energy markets were being impacted by conflict in the Middle East. It was still highly uncertain as to the extent and longevity of disruption to infrastructure, LNG and oil flows through the Strait of Hormuz, as well as to risks of interruption to supply. Crude oil and oil products The global benchmark oil price Brent averaged $69 per barrel (bbl) in 2025, considerably lower than the average of $81/bbl in 2024. Downside risks to oil markets increased sharply from early April 2025 after the US tariff announcements and the OPEC+ decision to accelerate the unwinding of voluntary production cuts. Following the US tariff announcement, Brent dropped by over $10/bbl to touch a four-year low of just above $60/bbl in early May 2025. The downward trend was briefly arrested when Brent reached a six-month high of $80/bbl at the height of the 12-day war between Israel and Iran in June 2025. As this subsided, the bearish price trend returned over market expectation for significant oversupply due to the rapid unwinding of OPEC+ production curtailment. Global liquids demand growth in 2025 was estimated at around 0.9 million barrels per day (mb/d), slightly slower than in 2024. Chinese demand remained sluggish, increasing by only about 0.1 mb/d, compared with 0.15 mb/d in 2024. Other major markets -- OECD Americas, OECD Europe and non-OECD Asia (excluding China) -- also saw weaker growth. Nonetheless, supply surged in 2025 due 42 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Market overview continued to the rapid return of OPEC+ curtailed volumes. Since OPEC+ started unwinding the voluntary cuts in April 2025, total global liquids supply rose by 4.6 mb/d by the third quarter. This caused a sharp increase in global liquids inventory in the second half of 2025. The IEA reported an implied global stock build of 3 mb/d in the third quarter of 2025, compared with a net draw of 0.8 mb/d in the same period of 2024. In 2026, market direction will depend on how certain key drivers evolve: Chinese demand, OPEC+ supply strategy, the production outlook of US light tight oil (LTO), and geopolitical developments in the Middle East, Russia/Ukraine, and Venezuela. The IEA expects a slightly higher growth rate for global demand as Chinese oil demand growth picks up slightly. On the supply side, US LTO responded to falling oil prices with much more moderate production growth in 2025, and the trend could continue should oil prices remain depressed. OPEC+ paused the unwinding in the first quarter of 2026, but decided to resume in April 2026. Natural gas market Global gas prices increased in 2025 as Europe imported more LNG to offset the loss of Russian gas transiting through Ukraine. Prices remained above historic levels seen prior to 2022. Market volatility persisted due to concerns about security of supply in Europe, despite additional LNG from the USA. However, subdued LNG imports into China had a negative impact on prices. In Europe, TTF (Title Transfer Facility) spot prices averaged $12.12/MMBtu (11% higher year-on-year) with the loss of Russian pipeline gas via the Ukrainian transit route on January 1, 2025. Nonetheless, European gas demand remained weak throughout the year, driven by a warm winter, continued lower industrial demand and high renewable power generation. Storage levels comfortably reached the EU mandatory targets by October 2025. Prices softened further in the fourth quarter as additional LNG supplies and weaker Asian demand supported more LNG flows into Europe. Spot LNG prices in Asia traded closely in line with TTF for much of 2025, reflecting the growing interconnection of global LNG markets. JKM (Japan/Korea Marker) prices averaged $12.37/MMBtu (4% higher year on year). Through the first three quarters, JKM prices held negligible premiums over TTF as declines in Chinese demand failed to attract significant cargoes to Asia. In the fourth quarter, with higher Asian storage levels, JKM fell below $10/MMBtu, stimulating additional demand and incentivising some LNG flows to Asia. Henry Hub: In 2025, natural gas production in the USA averaged 106.5 billion cubic feet per day (Bcf/d) for the year, up from 101.7 Bcf/d in 2024, with most of the year-over-year growth concentrated in the South Central region, particularly the Permian Basin. Production reached a record high of 111.4 Bcf/d on December 21, 2025. On the demand side, gas used for power generation has averaged 35.7 Bcf/d, which is 1.1 Bcf/d lower than last year. This decline is primarily due to increased renewable and coal generation. While the Lower 48 experienced cooler temperatures — averaging 14.6°C compared with 15.3°C in 2024 — any potential increase in winter heating demand was more than offset by reduced power generation demand during the milder summer. Meanwhile, LNG exports are expected to rise by 3.5 Bcf/d year on year, driven largely by the ramp-up of the Plaquemines LNG facility, reinforcing the USA's growing role in global gas markets. Power USA: In 2025, power markets experienced mixed regional dynamics shaped by capacity tightness in the east, strong renewable and storage growth across multiple regions, and mild weather in Texas and the West. PJM Interconnection saw capacity prices surge to historic highs, with Base Residual Auction clearing prices rising nearly 10-fold year on year and further reaching the market cap for 2026/27, reflecting tightening supply conditions and higher reliability requirements. New York Independent System Operator (NYISO) and New England Independent System Operator (ISO-NE) also faced shrinking reliability margins, i.e. system safety buffers. This was driven by fossil retirements, growing large-load interconnections from data centres and semiconductor facilities, and heightened winter fuel supply risks. In Texas, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) market saw mild summer weather and strong solar growth that kept daytime conditions stable, even as higher thermal outages increased reliance on energy storage. Real-time power prices were slightly higher than in 2024 due to increased natural gas costs. A major structural development occurred late in the year with the launch of ERCOT's Real-Time Co-Optimization plus Batteries (RTC-B) framework in December 2025, marking the beginning of ERCOT's transition to a more modern real-time market design. In the Western USA, power prices stayed muted throughout most of 2025, with only a few brief price excursions above $100/MWh in the Pacific Northwest. Large additions of solar, wind and battery capacity — amounting to around 7 GW of renewables and 7.2 GW of storage — helped maintain system flexibility despite lower hydropower generation. Across the country, solar, wind and battery storage continued to expand rapidly and increasingly shaped hourly price profiles. Demand growth from data centres, AI compute clusters and electrification remained a major demand driver in 2025 and is expected to continue driving infrastructure needs and resource additions into 2026. Europe: Across Europe, power prices rebounded slightly from 2024. In the first half of the year, higher gas prices and cold, calm weather caused an increase of 20--30 EUR/MWh in the major markets of Germany, France, the UK and Spain. Lower base-load prices in the second half of the year brought the annual average increase to 4-11 EUR/MWh compared with 2024. German power prices are still among the highest on the continent with an annual average of 89 EUR/MWh. Unprecedented voltage spikes and operational failures in the Iberian grid caused Europe's largest blackout in two decades, triggering 31 GW of load to be disconnected and leading to the deaths of seven people. France connected its first new nuclear reactor in 25 years, while Belgium extended the lifetime of existing nuclear reactors. Meanwhile, solar installations in the EU declined for the first time in a decade, down 1.4% at mid-year from 2024's record high. Offshore wind faced difficulties as Dutch and Danish tenders closed without bids, prompting Denmark to announce a shift to a two-sided contract for difference (CFD) model. In contrast, Germany held oversubscribed onshore wind auctions. The German government still plans to hold auctions next year for new gas-fired power plants with a combined capacity of 10 GW by 2032. Australia: Electricity volume-weighted average prices (VWAP) on the east coast National Electricity Market (NEM) were around A$107.72/MWh in 2025, decreasing from around A$131.22/MWh in 2024. Conversely, the west coast Wholesale Electricity Market (WEM) saw an increase in VWAP from around A$92.93/MWh to around A$114.74/MWh. This was partly due to a slight decline in domestic gas prices. Overall the NEM saw milder conditions than in the previous year, with the exception of a few days in June which saw extreme volatility as a result of coal outages, low wind generation and increased demand due to colder weather. Looking to the year ahead, the first tranche of the government's Capacity Investment Scheme (CIS) projects are expected to start operations, representing a new wave of wind, solar and storage assets in the NEM and WEM. Concurrently, the government has commenced a gas market review on Australia's east coast domestic gas and LNG export markets, with work ongoing through 2026. 43 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Market overview continued Crude oil and natural gas price assumptions Our ability to deliver competitive returns and pursue commercial opportunities depends on the accuracy of our price assumptions. We use a rigorous assessment of short-, medium- and long-term market uncertainties to determine which ranges of future crude oil and natural gas prices to use in project and portfolio evaluations. Market uncertainties include, for example, future economic conditions, geopolitics, actions by major resource holders, production costs, technological progress and the balance of supply and demand. See "Risk factors" on page 23 and Note 12 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 253-254. Refining and chemical margins After a weak start to 2025, refinery margins improved versus 2024, mainly because sanctions on Russia affected middle distillate supply and third and fourth quarter refinery availability was lower. Gasoline product crack spreads started the year at a low level, as increasing refinery capacity, particularly with Dangote Refinery in Nigeria ramping up, promised higher gasoline supply. Middle distillate crack spreads started 2025 stronger than gasoline but supply chains were working well which kept prices at reasonable levels. In the second half of 2025, Dangote started to have reliability issues resulting in more gasoline demand in West Africa from Europe. This, combined with refinery outages in the USA, resulted in support for gasoline product crack spreads. Middle distillate supply has been affected by Ukrainian drone strikes on Russian infrastructure, reducing middle distillate exports; in addition, the sanctions against Lukoil and Rosneft brought in during the final quarter of 2025, combined with general low refinery availability, created middle distillate supply concerns and high product crack spreads. The 2026 margin outlook depends on refinery availability, particularly in the Atlantic Basin, and on whether the new refineries such as Olmeca in Mexico and Dangote in Nigeria achieve full capacity. Also to be watched is potential sanction relief on Russia that could bring significant quantities of product to international markets. Chemical margins remained under pressure in 2025 due to continued growth of excess capacity in China. China added 7 million tonnes (MMTA) ethylene capacity while global demand grew by only 4 MMTA. In Europe, continued high costs, the loss of competitive exports (since 2022), and increasing low-cost imports have triggered announcements for an additional 3 MMTA ethylene capacity closure from 2025 to 2027. In the USA, cracker utilisation remains healthy due to low-cost feedstock (ethane). Shell Chemicals global weighted average indicative margin declined by about 30 $/t in 2025 from 2024. Most of the margin drop was observed in the USA, where the ethane cracking advantage eroded with falling crude and rising natural gas prices. Crude prices declined by $10/bbl while Henry Hub gas prices increased by $1.3/MMBtu. Note that global chemicals prices tend to follow the crude price, while US ethane price follows local natural gas. A second driver for weaker US chemicals margins was the declining propylene price as the market corrected due to improved supply and stagnant demand. Propylene prices declined by about 220 $/t from 2024 to 2025. China continues to add capacity in 2026, which should keep Asia chemicals variable margins near zero. The business expects that Shell's global indicative chemicals margin will improve slightly in 2026 due to strengthening prices in the USA and Europe. In Europe, recent industry rationalisation is expected to support market ethylene and propylene prices. Refining margins Global indicative refining margin $/bbl 2025 2024 2023 Indicative refining margin 10.14 7.74 12.45 The indicative refining margin is an approximation of Shell's global gross refining unit margin, calculated using price markers from third-party databases. It is based on a simplified crude and product yield profile at a nominal level of refining performance. The actual margins realised by Shell may vary due to factors including specific local market effects, refinery maintenance, crude diet optimisation as the crudes in the indicative refining margin are indicative benchmark crudes, operating decisions and product demand. Gross refining unit margin is defined as the hydrocarbon margin net of purchased/sold utilities, additives and relevant freight costs, divided by crude and feedstock intake in barrels. It is only applicable to the impact of market pricing on refining business performance, excluding trading margin. Petrochemical margins Global indicative chemical margin $/tonne 2025 2024 2023 Indicative chemical margin 147.9 151.72 132.63 The indicative chemical margin (ICM) is an approximation of Shell's global chemical margin performance trend (including equity-accounted associates), calculated using price markers from third-party databases. It is based on a simplified feedstock and product yield profile at a nominal level of plant performance. The actual margins realised by Shell may vary due to factors including specific local market effects, chemical plants maintenance, optimisation, operating decisions and product demand. Chemical unit margin is defined as the hydrocarbon margin net of purchased/sold utilities, additives and relevant freight costs, divided by a nominal denominator expressed in tonnes. It is only applicable to the impact of market pricing on Chemicals business performance. The statements in this "Market overview" section are forward-looking statements based on management's current expectations and certain material assumptions and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied herein. See "About this Report" on pages 11-12 and "Risk factors" on page 23. 44 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value Integrated Gas Integrated Gas explores for and extracts natural gas and associated liquids. This gas is then processed to produce liquefied natural gas (LNG) or converted into gas-to-liquids (GTL) fuels and other products. The business includes the operation of both upstream and midstream infrastructure necessary to deliver natural gas and its derivatives to market. 8.8 Income/(loss) for the period ($ billion) (2024: 9.6) 8.0 Adjusted Earnings ($ billion) (2024: 11.4) 14.1 Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion) (2024: 16.9) 931 Production (thousand boe/d) (2024: 954) At Capital Markets Day 2025, we said we would reinforce our leadership position in LNG by growing sales by 4--5% per year [A] through to 2030. We will also grow top-line production across our combined Upstream and Integrated Gas business by 1% per year [A] to 2030, sustaining our 1.4 million barrels per day of liquids production to 2030 with increasingly lower carbon intensity. In 2025, our performance and robust CFFO generation were driven by portfolio growth and operational excellence, with LNG sales growing by 11%, supported by the highest number of cargoes delivered in a single year. This record was supported by the acquisition of Pavilion Energy which increased our access to third-party volumes. We also began production at LNG Canada and shipped the first cargoes from there, marking a significant milestone in our integrated gas strategy. LNG Canada, which holds a 40-year export licence, expands Shell's global LNG portfolio, which is already one of the largest in the world. Final investment decisions taken in the year on the Mina West project in Egypt, the Aphrodite project in Trinidad and Tobago and the Gorgon Stage 3 development in Australia will help to secure future supply and contribute towards meeting our annual growth targets. For the business conditions relevant to Integrated Gas, see "Market overview" on pages 42-44. [A] On a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) basis. 28 LNG liquefaction volumes (million tonnes) (2024: 29) 73 LNG sales volumes (million tonnes) (2024: 66) “This was a year of strong, competitive delivery and cash outcomes, laying a solid foundation for us to be the world's leading integrated gas and LNG business.” Cederic Cremers President, Integrated Gas 45 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Integrated Gas continued Financial delivery 2025 earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items. Adjusted Earnings decreased by $3,366 million compared with 2024. This reflected the combined effect of lower contributions from trading and optimisation and lower realised prices (a decrease of $3,034 million), higher depreciation, depletion and amortisation expenses (increase of $407 million), and lower volumes (decrease of $250 million). This was partly offset by lower well write-offs (decrease of $252 million), and favourable tax movements ($102 million). Identified items in 2025 included favourable movements of $1,171 million due to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives, partly offset by impairment charges of $433 million. These favourable movements and charges are part of identified items and compare with the full year 2024 which included unfavourable movements of $1,088 million due to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives, impairment charges of $363 million, and a net loss of $96 million related to the sale of assets. As part of Shell's normal business, commodity derivative contracts are entered into as hedges for mitigation of economic exposures on future purchases, sales and inventory. Adjusted EBITDA was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings. Prior year earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items. Adjusted Earnings decreased by $2,529 million compared with 2023. This reflected the combined effect of lower contributions from trading and optimisation and lower realised prices (a decrease of $3,819 million). This was partly offset by higher volumes (an increase of $514 million), lower operating expenses (a decrease of $478 million), and favourable deferred tax movements ($399 million). Identified items in 2024 included unfavourable movements of $1,088 million relating to an accounting mismatch due to fair value accounting of commodity derivatives, impairment charges of $363 million, and a net loss of $96 million related to the sale of assets. These unfavourable movements compare with 2023, which included unfavourable movements of $4,407 million due to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives, and net impairment charges and reversals of $2,247 million. As part of Shell's normal business, commodity derivative hedge contracts are entered into for mitigation of economic exposures on future purchases, sales and inventory. Adjusted EBITDA was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings. Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from operating activities for 2025 was primarily driven by Adjusted EBITDA and net cash inflows related to derivatives of $1,487 million. These inflows were partly offset by tax payments of $3,261 million and working capital outflows of $835 million. Shell's policy is to settle the inter-segment use of tax attributes between business segments. This settlement is usually made in cash but in certain instances there is no cash settlement. In 2025, deferred tax assets of the Integrated Gas ($211 million) and Corporate ($89 million) segments were used by the Chemicals and Products ($300 million) segment, for which no cash settlement was made. [A] All earnings amounts are shown post-tax unless otherwise stated. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. Key metrics [B] $ million, except where indicated 2025 2024 2023 Income/(loss) for the period 8,820 9,590 7,057 Identified items [B] 796 (1,800) (6,862) Adjusted Earnings* [B] [C] 8,024 11,390 13,919 Adjusted EBITDA* [C] [D] 16,994 20,978 23,773 Cash flow from operating activities* 14,086 16,909 17,520 Cash capital expenditure 4,689 4,767 4,196 Liquids production available for sale (thousand b/d) 128 132 128 Natural gas production available for sale (million scf/d) 4,654 4,769 4,700 Total production available for sale (thousand boe/d) 931 954 939 LNG liquefaction volumes (million tonnes) 28.4 29.1 28.3 LNG sales volumes (million tonnes) 72.9 65.8 67.1 [B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 243-251. [C] Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. [D] Adjusted EBITDA is without taxation, exploration well write-offs and depreciation, depletion and amortisation (DD&A) expenses. Cash capital expenditure Our cash capital expenditure in 2025 was lower than in 2024. The decrease was mainly a result of a major turnaround at Pearl GTL in 2024. Our cash capital expenditure is expected to be around $6 billion in 2026 in Integrated Gas. Operational performance Production available for sale Our natural gas production decreased by 2% in 2025 compared with 2024, mainly due to natural field decline across the portfolio. In 2025, natural gas and liquids made up 86% and 14% of total production, respectively. LNG liquefaction and sales volumes Our LNG liquefaction volumes decreased by 2% compared with the previous year. This was mainly due to ownership restructuring in Trinidad and Tobago, and higher maintenance across the portfolio, and was partly offset by the LNG Canada ramp-up. LNG sales volumes increased in 2025 compared with 2024, primarily due to higher purchases from third parties following the Pavilion Energy acquisition. 46 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Integrated Gas continued Integrated Gas data table LNG liquefaction volumes Million tonnes 2025 2024 2023 Australia 13.3 14.4 13.3 Brunei 1.2 1.2 1.1 Canada 0.9 — — Egypt 0.1 — 0.3 Nigeria 3.7 3.5 3.3 Oman 2.8 2.8 2.7 Peru 0.8 0.9 0.8 Qatar 2.4 2.3 2.4 Trinidad and Tobago 3.2 4.0 4.3 Total 28.4 29.1 28.3 Strategic progress Portfolio and business developments Significant portfolio and business developments: ￮ In March 2025, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the shares in Pavilion Energy Pte. Ltd. (Pavilion Energy). The deal was announced in June 2024. ￮ In June 2025, the first cargo of LNG left the LNG Canada joint venture facility (Shell interest 40%). ￮ In June 2025, a final investment decision (FID) was taken to start the development of and production at the Mina West gas discovery in Egypt (Shell interest 60%). ￮ In June 2025, an FID was taken on the Aphrodite development project in Trinidad and Tobago (Shell interest 100%). ￮ In December 2025, an FID was taken on the Gorgon Stage 3 development in Australia (Shell interest 25%). Business and property Integrated Gas A complete list of LNG and GTL plants in operation and under construction in which we have an interest is provided below. LNG liquefaction plants under construction at December 31, 2025 Asset Location Shell interest (%) 100% capacity (mtpa) [A] Shell-operated Africa Nigeria Train 7 [B] Bonny 25.6 7.6 No Asia Qatar QatarEnergy LNG NFE(2) [C] Ras Laffan 25.0 8.0 No QatarEnergy LNG NFS(2) [D] Ras Laffan 25.0 6.0 No United Arab Emirates Ruwais LNG [E] Al Ruwais 10.0 9.6 No [A] 100% capacity represents the total capacity that all trains are expected to process as reported by the operator. [B] First LNG is expected in the second half of the 2020s. [C] Shell holds 25% in the joint venture, which owns 25% of the North Field East expansion project, which has a nameplate capacity of 32 mtpa. First LNG is expected in the second half of the 2020s. [D] Shell holds 25% in the joint venture, which owns 37.5% of the North Field South expansion project, which has a nameplate capacity of 16 mtpa. First LNG is expected in the second half of the 2020s. [E] First LNG is expected in 2028. 47 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Integrated Gas continued Making the most of our existing assets In 2025, across our Integrated Gas portfolio, we reached final investment decisions and key milestones that demonstrate how we are maximising value by investing in gas discoveries to keep our high utilisation of existing assets. We are leveraging established infrastructure to help unlock value for Shell and contribute to the strengthening of energy security in key markets. Strengthening Trinidad and Tobago's gas future In Trinidad and Tobago, the Atlantic LNG facility is a significant supplier of LNG for the export market. Shell's interests in the production trains range from 47.15% to 51.1%. We also have interests in two concessions with producing fields: North Coast Marine Area (Shell interest 80.5%) and East Coast Marine Area (Shell interest 100%) – both are already home to some of Shell's largest gas producing fields. We took a final investment decision (FID) in July 2024 to develop the Manatee gas field and in 2025 we took an FID on the Aphrodite backfill project development [A]. Aphrodite, together with Manatee, will help sustain Trinidad and Tobago's gas industry into the 2030s. Aphrodite will connect to existing subsea infrastructure in the Shell Operated East Coast Marine Area, sending gas to the Dolphin A platform. Production is expected to start in 2027 and reach a peak production capacity of about 18,400 boe/d. Manatee is also expected to deliver first gas in 2027 and reach a peak production capacity of 104,000 boe/d. Accelerated delivery in Egypt Gas was discovered in Egypt's Mina West field in October 2023, and we and our partners took an FID in June 2025 to start development and production. This demonstrates how partnership and accelerated project execution offer an opportunity to unlock value quickly. Mina West will be developed as a subsea tieback to the existing West Delta Deep Marine (WDDM) concession infrastructure which supplies gas to the domestic market and the Egyptian LNG plant. WDDM (Shell interest 50%) is operated by the Burullus Gas Company joint venture (Shell interest 25%) and supplies gas to the domestic market and an Egyptian LNG plant. Shell will operate the Mina West field with a 60% interest. The project is expected to deliver secure, reliable energy to the domestic market while expanding Shell's gas business. Efficient execution in Australia In 2025, the Crux platform jacket was installed offshore Western Australia. The project shows the advantages of re-engaging contractors and fabrication yards to help reduce execution risk. The platform will supply backfill gas to the Prelude FLNG facility from the Crux field, 160 kilometres north-east of Prelude. Crux will be operated remotely from Prelude. The Phase 1 drilling campaign delivered five wells and was completed in 2025, finishing 78 days ahead of schedule and delivering cost savings. Subsea pipelay activities were also executed efficiently, completing three months early. An FID was also taken on the Gorgon Stage 3 backfill development project. This will connect the offshore Geryon and Eurytion natural gas fields in the Greater Gorgon Area to Gorgon's existing subsea gas gathering infrastructure and processing facilities on Barrow Island. The development will help maintain production at Gorgon, enabling the long-term supply of domestic gas for Western Australian households and industry, and LNG for international customers. 1. The Crux jacket being installed at the Crux site in Western Australia. [A] The Aphrodite project is pending regulatory approvals. 48 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Integrated Gas continued LNG liquefaction plants in operation at December 31, 2025 [A] Asset Location Shell interest (%) 100% capacity (mtpa) [B] Shell-operated Asia Brunei Brunei LNG Lumut 25 7.6 No Oman Oman LNG Sur 30 7.1 No Qalhat LNG [C] Sur 11 3.7 No Qatar QatarEnergy LNG N(4) [D] Ras Laffan 30 7.8 No Oceania Australia North West Shelf [D] Karratha 16.7 14.3 No Gorgon LNG [D] Barrow Island 25 15.6 No Prelude [D] Browse Basin 67.5 3.6 Yes Queensland Curtis LNG T1 [D] Curtis Island 50 4.3 Yes Queensland Curtis LNG T2 [D] Curtis Island 97.5 4.3 Yes Africa Egypt Egyptian LNG T1 Idku 35.5 3.6 No Egyptian LNG T2 Idku 38 3.6 No Nigeria Nigeria LNG T1-T6 Bonny 25.6 24.1 No North America Canada LNG Canada T1-2 [E] Kitimat 40.0 14.0 No South America Peru Peru LNG Pampa Melchorita 20 4.5 No Trinidad and Tobago Atlantic LNG T1/2/3 Point Fortin 47.15 9.3 No Atlantic LNG T4 Point Fortin 51.1 5.2 No [A] We have offtake rights via a lease to 100% of the capacity (2.5 mtpa) of the Kinder Morgan-operated Elba Island liquefaction plant in Georgia, USA. [B] 100% capacity represents the total capacity that all trains can process as reported by the operator. [C] The interest is held via an indirect shareholding through Oman LNG. [D] These assets are clustered as integrated assets and have onshore or offshore upstream production. [E] The first cargo left LNG Canada in June 2025. GTL plants in operation at December 31, 2025 Asset Location Shell interest (%) 100% capacity (b/d) [A] Shell-operated Asia Malaysia Shell MDS Bintulu 72.0 14,700 Yes Qatar Pearl Ras Laffan 100.0 140,000 Yes [A] 100% capacity represents the total capacity of the plant. LNG regasification terminals As at December 31, 2025 we held interests in the following regasification terminals: ￮ Dragon LNG in the UK (Shell interest 50%); ￮ Shell Energy India (Shell interest 100%); and ￮ Shell LNG Gibraltar (Shell interest 51%). We had rights in other regasification terminals in: ￮ the Netherlands (Shell capacity rights 4.6 mtpa); ￮ the UK (Shell capacity rights 2 mtpa); ￮ the USA (total Shell capacity rights 24.7 mtpa); ￮ Mexico (Shell capacity rights 2.7 mtpa); and ￮ Singapore (mainly licences to import LNG and sell regasified LNG in Singapore with no volume cap). Total Shell regasification capacity rights were 9.7 mtpa in Europe, 27.4 mtpa in North America and 6 mtpa in Asia. Oil and natural gas production, exploration and development The contractual frameworks most relevant to our activities are set out on page 59. Australia We operate the Queensland Curtis LNG (QCLNG) venture's natural gas operations in the onshore Surat Basin. Our interests range from 44% to 74% in 25 field compression stations and six central processing plants. Gas from the Surat Basin is supplied to the QCLNG liquefaction plant and the domestic gas market. Also in Queensland, we have a 50% interest in the Arrow joint venture with China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). Arrow owns coalbed methane assets and a domestic power business. 49 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Integrated Gas continued Shell has interests in offshore production, LNG liquefaction and exploration licences in the Browse Basin, and in the North West Shelf (NWS) and Greater Gorgon areas of the Carnarvon Basin. Woodside operates the NWS joint venture (Shell interest 16.7%). We have a 25% interest in the Chevron-operated Gorgon LNG joint venture that includes offshore production. In December 2025, we took an FID on the Gorgon Stage 3 development project. In the Browse Basin, Shell operates the Prelude field (Shell interest 67.5%) and the Crux gas and condensate development field (Shell interest 84.5%). Bolivia We have a 37.5% interest in the Repsol-operated Caipipendi block where natural gas is produced and delivered to domestic and export markets. We also have a 25% interest in the Tarija XX West block which produces from the Itaú field. Canada We produce and market natural gas, natural gas liquids and condensate. We hold mineral acres, primarily in the Montney play in British Columbia and Alberta. We operate four natural gas processing facilities at our Groundbirch asset in British Columbia. Shell's working interest across the Groundbirch acreage ranges from 88% to 92%. Gas from the Groundbirch asset is supplied to the LNG Canada Shell-operated liquefaction plant and domestic gas market. Shell has a 40% interest in LNG Canada which is a joint venture with Petronas, PetroChina, Mitsubishi and Kogas. In June 2025, the first cargo of LNG left the facility. China We develop and produce from the onshore Changbei tight-gas field under a PSC with China National Petroleum Corporation. Egypt We have a range of venture and concession interests. The Burullus Gas Company joint venture (Shell interest 25%) operates the West Delta Deep Marine concession (Shell interest 50%) and supplies gas to the domestic market and an Egyptian LNG plant. The Rashid Petroleum Company (Rashpetco) joint venture (Shell interest 50%) operates the Rosetta concession (Shell interest 100%). The El Burg Offshore Company (EBOC) joint venture (Shell interest 30%) operates the El Burg offshore concession (Shell interest 60%). A sales and purchase agreement (SPA) has been signed for the El Burg concession to divest 100% of Shell interest to Arcius and this was completed in February 2026. The Mina Gas Company (Mina Gas) joint venture (Shell interest 30%) operates the Northeast El Amriya offshore concession (Shell interest 60%). In June 2025, a final investment decision was taken to start development and production from the Mina West gas discovery. We also have interests in several exploration concessions in the Nile Delta and the wider East Mediterranean. Oman We have a concession agreement for the development and production of natural gas and condensate in the Shell-operated Block 10 (Shell interest 53.45%). We also have an exploration and production-sharing agreement for the exploration and appraisal of natural gas and condensate in the Shell-operated Block 11 (Shell interest 67.5%). Since January 2025, we have had a long-term offtake agreement in place to purchase up to 1.6 mtpa over a 10-year period from Oman LNG. Qatar Under a development and production-sharing contract with the government, we operate the fully integrated Pearl GTL plant (Shell interest 100%) and associated upstream production. Pearl GTL has the capacity to produce, process and transport 1.6 billion standard cubic feet per day (scf/d) of gas from Qatar's North Field. We have a 30% interest in QatarEnergy LNG N(4), an integrated onshore gas-processing facility operated by QatarEnergy LNG, which can produce around 1.4 billion scf/d of gas from Qatar's North Field. We also have a 25% interest in the QatarEnergy LNG NFE(2) joint venture, which owns a 25% interest in the North Field East (NFE) project. Shell's ownership of NFE via the joint venture is 6.25%. In addition, we have a 25% interest in the QatarEnergy LNG NFS(2) joint venture which owns a 37.5% interest in the North Field South (NFS) project. Shell's ownership of NFS via the joint venture is 9.375%. Russia In 2022, Shell announced its intent to withdraw in a phased manner from its involvement in all Russian hydrocarbons, including crude oil, petroleum products, gas and LNG. Shell still holds a 27.5% (minus one share) interest in Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (SEIC), a Bermudan entity, which purportedly no longer holds any licences, rights and obligations in Sakhalin-2. Shell still holds one long-term LNG purchase contract with a Novatek entity. Trinidad and Tobago We have interests in two concessions with producing fields: North Coast Marine Area (Shell interest 80.5%) and East Coast Marine Area (Shell interest 100%), where in June 2025 we took a final investment decision on the Aphrodite development project. In May 2025, we completed the sale of our 65% interest in the Central Block facility to Touchstone Exploration Trinidad Limited. We have a 100% interest in exploration blocks 5(c)REA, 6d and modified block U(c). We also have a 50% interest in exploration blocks 25a, 25b and 27 in the Columbus Basin. We operate Block 27 and bp is the operator of the remaining two. In 2025, we submitted notification of our relinquishment of all portions of the Block 5d contract area. Other We also have interests in Barbados, Colombia (withdrawal is in progress), Cyprus, Tanzania and Venezuela [A]. [A] Our previous Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) licence was withdrawn in 2025 in line with US policy at the time, meaning that we have been unable to undertake any activities related to our Venezuela interest since then. In mid-February 2026, the USA issued several general licences that authorise various activities in Venezuela, including one that allows certain companies to engage in oil and gas operations in Venezuela and produce from its reserves. We are currently reviewing these general licences to understand how they impact our activities. Trading and Optimisation Our trading organisation markets and sells our share of equity production of LNG and third-party LNG through our UK, UAE and Singapore trading hubs. We have term sales contracts for most of our LNG liquefaction and term purchase contracts. Our shipping network, regasification terminals and ability to buy and deliver spot cargoes from third parties enable us to optimise the income we generate from our LNG cargoes. For example, if a customer no longer needs a scheduled cargo, we can deliver it to another customer. Similarly, if a customer needs an additional cargo not available from our own production, we contract with third parties to deliver that cargo. We conduct paper trades, primarily to manage commodity price risk related to sales and purchase contracts. 50 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Integrated Gas continued LNG Canada makes its first shipments to Asia On June 30, 2025, the first shipment of LNG left the LNG Canada joint venture facility in British Columbia for Asia, where it will help to meet the region's growing demand for natural gas. Shell is involved across the LNG value chain, from extraction and liquefaction to shipping, trading, regasification and delivery. The LNG Canada value chain is a key example of this. LNG Canada, which holds a 40-year export licence, expands Shell's global LNG portfolio, which is already one of the largest in the world. Sourcing and liquefying the gas As a shareholder in LNG Canada, Shell sources gas from third parties on the open market and from our own Groundbirch asset in British Columbia. Natural gas is extracted at Groundbirch using advanced technologies to unlock the gas safely and responsibly. After being extracted and processed at our local gas plants, the natural gas is funnelled into the Coastal GasLink pipeline. This pipeline is 670 kilometres long and crosses two mountain ranges to reach LNG Canada at Kitimat on a remote part of the Pacific coast. In Kitimat, the gas is turned into LNG to make it more efficient to store and ship. The gas is cooled to -162°C, reducing its volume by about 600 times. LNG Canada has two processing units, or "trains", which have the collective capacity to produce 14 million tonnes of LNG a year. This is enough to meet the annual natural gas requirements of Singapore and Vietnam combined in 2024. Four gas turbines – derived from aircraft engines and used in an LNG plant for the first time – power the liquefaction process. Supplying Asia The LNG is loaded onto ships and transported to global markets, mainly in Asia. LNG Canada halves shipment times to Asian markets compared with cargoes from the Gulf of America, which must pass through the Panama Canal, a potential choke point, to reach the Pacific Ocean and Asia. Exactly where the cargoes from LNG Canada end up depends on Shell's trading teams. Some customers enter into long-term contracts that extend beyond 10 years, while others purchase single cargoes just days before delivery. Shell's traders analyse weather patterns, economic trends, supply and demand, and geopolitical events. At Shell, our ability to navigate these complex and dynamic markets is key to helping to meet global energy demand. Putting Canada, and LNG, on the energy map LNG Canada is among the largest private-sector investments in Canada's history and the country's first large-scale LNG export facility. LNG Canada was designed to be one of the lowest-carbon-intensity LNG facilities in the world. Shell is the largest owner in LNG Canada, holding a 40% interest. The other joint venture partners include PETRONAS of Malaysia, PetroChina, Mitsubishi Corporation of Japan, and Korea Gas Corporation, all based in recipient markets in Asia. More than 50,000 Canadians have directly contributed to building LNG Canada and to date more than CAN $5.8 billion in contracts and subcontracts have been awarded to local, Indigenous and other businesses in British Columbia [A]. Shell's 2025 LNG Outlook forecasts global demand for LNG to rise by around 60% by 2040, largely driven by economic growth in Asia. Gas, including LNG, is a stabilising force in energy systems because it is versatile, flexible and reliable. Gas is versatile because it can be used in power generation, industry, heating and transport. It is also flexible and reliable because it is simple to deploy and can be shipped, as LNG, to where it is needed to meet changing demand. Gas is a lower-carbon alternative to coal in power generation and industry, and to oil in transport. Gas can balance renewable energy to provide stability for national grids. [A] Source: LNG Canada website lngcanada.ca 1. Gaslog Glasgow arriving at the LNG Canada facility for first cargo. 51 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value Upstream The Upstream segment includes exploration and extraction of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. It also markets and transports oil and gas, and operates the infrastructure necessary to deliver them to the market. Shell has activities in deep water and conventional oil and gas. 9.4 Income/(loss) for the period ($ billion) (2024: 7.8) 7.4 Adjusted Earnings ($ billion) (2024: 8.4) At Capital Markets Day 2025, we said we would grow top-line production across our combined Upstream and Integrated Gas business by 1% (CAGR) per year to 2030, sustaining our 1.4 million barrels per day of liquids production to 2030. We will focus on basins where we have a competitive advantage and we will prioritise cost- and carbon-competitive molecules. In 2025, we delivered strong operational performance, with high controllable availability, and increased contributions from higher-margin volumes, especially in the Gulf of America and Brazil. We also made significant progress on new production, already delivering 25% of the more than 1 million barrels of oil equivalent per day we promised by 2030. We executed value-driven decisions to strengthen our business. We completed the divestment of The Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) in Nigeria and the set-up of the new Adura Energy Limited joint venture in the UK. We further strengthened our deep-water leadership by increasing our interests in the Gulf of America, Brazil and Nigeria. These actions contributed to sustained liquids production at about 1.4 million barrels per day, supported our growth target and generated robust cash flow despite the lower price environment. By leveraging our advantaged deep-water and conventional assets, we prioritised cost- and carbon-competitive molecules — delivering value and working towards lowering our emissions. For the business conditions relevant to Upstream, see "Market overview" on pages 42-44. [A] On a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) basis. 19.6 Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion) (2024: 21.2) 1,828 Production (thousand boe/d) (2024: 1,831) “Upstream delivered strong operational results, with high controllable availability driving sustained high production.” Peter Costello President, Upstream 52 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Upstream continued Financial delivery 2025 earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items. Adjusted Earnings decreased by $953 million compared with 2024. This reflected lower realised liquids prices (decrease of $2,924 million) and the comparative unfavourable impact of gas storage effects (decrease of $662 million). These net unfavourable movements were partly offset by lower well write-offs (decrease of $915 million) and higher sales volumes (increase of $901 million). Identified items in 2025 included gains on the disposal of assets of $2,806 million, mainly related to the incorporation of the Adura Energy Limited joint venture in the UK, partly offset by a charge of $536 million related to the UK Energy Profits Levy and impairment charges of $162 million. These gains and charges compare with 2024, which included a loss of $325 million related to the impact of the weakening Brazilian real on a deferred tax position, net impairment charges and reversals of $323 million, and charges of $214 million related to redundancy and restructuring. This was partly offset by gains of $638 million related to the impact of inflationary adjustments in Argentina on a deferred tax position. Adjusted EBITDA was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings. Prior year earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items. Adjusted Earnings decreased by $1,411 million compared with 2023. This reflected unfavourable tax movements ($1,289 million), lower realised prices (decrease of $949 million) and higher well write-offs (increase of $541 million), partly offset by the comparatively favourable impact of $962 million mainly relating to gas storage effects. Identified items in 2024 included a loss of $325 million related to the impact of the weakening Brazilian real on a deferred tax position, net impairment charges and reversals of $323 million and charges of $214 million related to redundancy and restructuring. This was partly offset by gains of $638 million related to the impact of inflationary adjustments in Argentina on a deferred tax position. These charges and gains compare with 2023, which included net impairment charges and reversals of $642 million, and net charges of $295 million related to the impact of the weakening Argentine peso and strengthening Brazilian real on a deferred tax position. Adjusted EBITDA was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings. Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from operating activities for 2025 was primarily driven by Adjusted EBITDA and dividends (net of profits) from joint ventures and associates of $1,448 million. These inflows were partly offset by tax payments of $7,415 million and movements in decommissioning and other provisions of $1,087 million. Cash capital expenditure Cash capital expenditure in 2025 was higher compared with 2024. The increase was mainly a result of increased working interests in Brazil and the Gulf of America (GoA), as well as new projects, mainly in Brazil. This was partly offset by lower spend on projects mainly in Malaysia. Cash capital expenditure is expected to be around $7 billion in 2026. [A] All earnings amounts are shown post-tax unless otherwise stated. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. Key metrics [B] $ million, except where indicated 2025 2024 2023 Income/(loss) for the period 9,443 7,772 8,540 Identified items [B] 2,001 (623) (1,266) Adjusted Earnings* [B] [C] 7,442 8,395 9,806 Adjusted EBITDA* [C] [D] 26,696 31,264 30,622 Cash flow from operating activities* 19,573 21,244 21,450 Cash capital expenditure 9,316 7,890 8,343 Liquids production available for sale (thousand b/d) 1,365 1,320 1,325 Natural gas production available for sale (million scf/d) 2,684 2,964 2,754 Total production available for sale (thousand boe/d) 1,828 1,831 1,800 [B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 243-251. [C] Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. [D] Adjusted EBITDA is without taxation, exploration well write-offs and DD&A expenses. Operational performance Production available for sale In 2025, liquids production increased by 3% and natural gas production decreased by 9%, compared with 2024. Total production, compared with 2024, was flat, with reductions due to the divestment of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) and field decline offset by new liquids and gas production. Strategic progress Portfolio and business developments Significant portfolio and business developments: ￮ In January 2025, we started production at the Shell-operated Whale floating production facility in the GoA. Shell has a 60% interest in the Whale development, and Chevron U.S.A. Inc. has a 40% interest. ￮ In February 2025, we restarted production at the Penguins field in the UK North Sea with a modernised Shell-operated FPSO facility (Shell interest 50%) NEO Energy holds the other 50%. ￮ In February 2025, we signed an agreement to acquire a 15.96% working interest from ConocoPhillips Company (COP) in the Shell-operated Ursa platform in the GoA. We completed this agreement in May 2025 and our working interest in the Ursa platform increased from 45.39% to 61.35%. ￮ In March 2025, we completed the sale of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) to Renaissance. ￮ In March 2025, we announced a final investment decision (FID) for Gato do Mato, a Shell-operated deep-water project in the pre-salt area of the Santos Basin, offshore Brazil. Pré-Sal Petróleo S.A. (PPSA) is the manager of the production-sharing contract (PSC). At FID, Shell held a 50% interest, Ecopetrol held 30%, and TotalEnergies had 20%. In January 2026, we increased our 50% interest in Gato do Mato (now Orca) to 70% after completing a swap agreement with TotalEnergies. In February 2026, we agreed to sell a 20% interest to Kuwait Petroleum Exploration Company (KUFPEC). The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals. Once completed, we will have a 50% interest and will remain operator, with Ecopetrol holding 30% and KUFPEC holding 20%. 53 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Upstream continued ￮ In May 2025, the start of production was announced at the FPSO Alexandre de Gusmão in the Mero field (Shell interest 19.3%) in the Santos Basin offshore Brazil. The unitised Mero field is operated by Petrobras (38.6%), in partnership with Shell, TotalEnergies (19.3%), CNPC (9.65%), China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) (9.65%) and Pré-Sal Petróleo S.A. (PPSA) (3.5%) representing the government in the non-contracted area. ￮ In May 2025, we signed an agreement to acquire an additional interest of up to 12.5% in the OML 118 production-sharing contract (OML 118 PSC) in Nigeria from TotalEnergies EP Nigeria Limited. In November 2025, we completed this transaction and increased our interest in the OML 118 PSC from 55% to 65%. ￮ In October 2025, we announced, together with Sunlink Energies and Resources Limited, an FID on the HI gas project offshore Nigeria (Shell interest 40%). ￮ In December 2025, we and Equinor ASA completed a deal to combine our UK offshore oil and gas operations to form a new company Adura, which is a 50:50 joint venture. ￮ In December 2025, following an auction, we secured additional equity in Brazil's pre-salt oil projects. With this acquisition we will increase our participating interest in the Atapu unit from 16.663% to 16.917% and the Mero unit from 19.3% to 20%. Both projects are located in the offshore Santos Basin. ￮ In December 2025, we announced an FID on a waterflood project at the Kaikias field (Shell 100% interest) in the GoA. Business and property Our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are involved in all aspects of upstream activities. These activities include land tenure and the exploration, development and production of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids. They also include the marketing and transportation of oil and gas, as well as the operation of the infrastructure necessary to deliver them to market. The contractual frameworks most relevant to our activities are set out on page 59. Europe Germany Shell is a 50% shareholder in BEB Erdgas und Erdöel GmbH & Co. KG (BEB), which owns interests in various concessions, mainly in Lower Saxony. ExxonMobil Production Deutschland GmbH has a service contract with BEB, under which it provides operating services to BEB for most of the concessions. Italy Shell has a 39% interest in the Val d'Agri producing concession, operated by Eni S.p.A., and a 25% interest in the Tempa Rossa producing concession, operated by TotalEnergies EP Italia S.p.A. Netherlands Shell and ExxonMobil are 50:50 shareholders in Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij B.V. (NAM). NAM holds a 60% interest in the onshore low-calorific Groningen gas field (the remaining 40% interest is held by EBN, a Dutch government entity). NAM also holds the Schoonebeek oil field, 14 smaller hydrocarbon production licences and two underground gas storage facilities. Historical production from the Groningen field induces earthquakes, which have led to damage claims, security concerns, and a strengthening operation to make buildings earthquake resistant. In June 2018, NAM's shareholders and the Dutch government signed a Heads of Agreement (HoA) to, inter alia, reduce, and eventually cease, production from the Groningen field. Under the terms of the HoA, it was agreed that the Dutch government would pass on to NAM costs insofar as the costs corresponded to NAM's liability. Further agreements were signed to implement the HoA. NAM is working with the Dutch government to fulfil its financial obligations for earthquake costs. These include compensating for damage caused by the earthquakes and paying to strengthen houses where this is required for safety. In 2022, NAM started arbitrations with the Dutch government to have its financial liability determined for the costs the Dutch government has charged to NAM in relation to the strengthening operation and the handling of claims for physical damage to property. The outcomes of these arbitrations are expected in 2026. On the instructions of the Dutch government, production at the Groningen field ceased on October 1, 2023, and a law was passed to shut down the field permanently from April 19, 2024. On May 1, 2025, the sale of NAM Offshore B.V., the entity holding OneGas East, NAM's offshore asset in the Dutch North Sea, to Tenaz Energy was completed. See Note 32 NAM (Groningen gas field) litigation in the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 287. Norway Shell holds participating interests in 11 production licences on the Norwegian continental shelf and is the operator of three of these. In 2025, Shell was awarded one new licence and relinquished five. Shell has participating interests in two producing gas fields in Norway: Shell-operated Ormen Lange (Shell interest 17.8%) and Equinor-operated Troll (Shell interest 8.19%). At Ormen Lange, the Phase 3 sub-sea compression project was completed and delivered first gas in June 2025. It is expected to increase recovery from 75% to 85% without increasing offshore emissions, using hydropower as its energy source. Shell also holds a 10% participating interest in the Irpa gas discovery, operated by Equinor, which is under development. We operate two licences that are being decommissioned: Knarr and Gaupe. In addition, Shell is the technical service provider for the Nyhamna gas facility, operated by Gassco, which processes and exports gas from several Norwegian fields. UK In July 2024, Shell signed an agreement with RockRose Energy Limited, a subsidiary of Viaro Energy, to divest its equity stake in 11 gas fields and one exploration prospect in the UK Southern North Sea and the onshore gas processing terminal in Bacton, England. However, in January 2026, Shell, ExxonMobil and Viaro Energy mutually agreed not to proceed with the transaction given that the completion conditions were not met. Shell and ExxonMobil will continue to own the assets, with Shell as operator. Production from the Shell Penguins Field was restarted in February 2025 from a new, modernised FPSO facility (Shell interest prior to completion of the Adura transaction 50%). The Victory Field (Shell interest prior to completion of the Adura transaction 100%), a subsea tieback to the Total-operated Greater Laggan Area facilities, produced first gas in September 2025, well ahead of the July 2026 planned start-up, enabled by strong drilling and offshore execution. 54 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Upstream continued Significant progress has also been made on the Jackdaw project (Shell interest prior to completion of the Adura transaction 100%) in the North Sea and it is expected, subject to regulatory approval, to become operational in the fourth quarter of 2026. Following the Court of Session (Outer House) ruling in Scotland that work on the project could continue while new consents are being sought, work has proceeded and the topsides were safely towed out from Norway and installed on the Jackdaw jacket in October 2025. In September 2025, Shell submitted its Scope 3 assessment for the Jackdaw Field as part of the process to re-establish production consent for the project. On November 28, 2025, the English High Court dismissed Oceana UK's judicial review challenge to the award of tranche three of the 33rd licensing round awards (including two licences awarded to Shell in the Mid-North Sea High area). Shell's 33rd round licences were transferred to Adura on December 1, 2025. In July 2023, the UK government announced that the Acorn carbon capture, utilisation and storage project (Shell interest 30%) had been selected as one of two clusters to enter Track 2 of the UK's cluster sequencing process for carbon capture and storage (CCS). In June 2025, as part of the comprehensive Spending Review process, the UK government announced development funding to advance the Acorn carbon capture, utilisation and storage project towards an FID. The project is in discussions with the UK government to unlock this funding. In the meantime, short-term funding has been provided by the Scottish government. The Offshore Petroleum Regulator for Environment and Decommissioning (OPRED) continues to assess the Brent field decommissioning programme for the Brent gravity-based substructures and has asked its Science and Technology Advisory Council (STAC) to conduct a short, focused review of the scientific and engineering evidence that underpins the Brent decommissioning programme recommendations. The next steps on the Brent decommissioning programme will be subject to the outcome of the STAC review. Decommissioning of the Heather Alpha platform continued in 2025. The Heather Alpha platform topsides were safely removed and taken onshore for recycling in August 2025. Continued activity on the subsea well plug and abandonment campaign continued into 2025, specifically on Curlew, Pierce and Kingfisher, noting that Shell's interest in Pierce has transferred to Adura. On December 1, 2025, Shell and Equinor ASA completed the combination of their UK offshore oil and gas assets and expertise to form an incorporated joint venture, Adura Energy Limited. Adura (Shell interest 50% and Equinor interest 50%) is based in Aberdeen, Scotland. The joint venture includes Equinor's former equity interests in Mariner, Rosebank and Buzzard; and Shell's former equity interests in Shearwater, Jackdaw, Penguins, Gannet, Nelson, Pierce, Victory, Clair and Schiehallion. A range of exploration licences are also part of the transaction. Excluded from the transaction are: Shell's interests in the Howe field; the SEGAL gas transportation system; those fields and facilities that have already ceased production; its equity stake in 11 gas fields and one exploration prospect in the UK Southern North Sea; and the onshore gas processing terminal in Bacton, England. In addition to these retained interests, decommissioning activities in all fields in the UK Continental Shelf are continuing, most of which are pursuant to the relevant Decommissioning Security Agreements. Rest of Europe Shell also has interests in Albania in Block 2/3. Shell issued a notice of non-commerciality of the Block 2/3 Discovery Area in 2025 to the Government of Albania. Asia (including the Middle East) Brunei Shell and the Brunei government are 50:50 shareholders in Brunei Shell Petroleum Company Sendirian Berhad (BSP). BSP has long-term onshore and offshore oil and gas concession rights and sells most of its gas production to Brunei LNG Sendirian Berhad, with the remainder sold in the domestic market. In addition to our interest in BSP, we have a non-operated 35% interest in the offshore Block B concession, which is operated by Hibiscus Petroleum. The gas and condensate are produced from the Maharajalela Jamalulalam field. We operate the deep-water Block CA1 (Shell interest 86.95%) in which the Jagus East field is located and which forms part of the unitised GKGJE field under a PSC. As referred to in the Malaysia section, the unitised GKGJE field is operated by Shell Malaysia. In December 2025, we relinquished our 20% non-operated interest in the deep-water block CA2. See "Integrated Gas" on pages 45-51. Iraq Shell has a 44% interest in the Basrah Gas Company, which gathers, treats and processes associated gas that was previously flared from the Rumaila, West Qurna 1 and Zubair fields. Processed gas and associated products, such as condensate and LPG, are sold to the domestic and international markets. Kazakhstan Shell is the joint operator with ENI S.p.A. of the onshore Karachaganak oil and condensate field (Shell interest 29.3%) in north-west Kazakhstan which covers more than 280 square kilometres. One of the shareholders in Karachaganak is Lukoil (13.5% interest). We continue to manage our interest in compliance with international sanctions on Russia. We also have a 16.8% interest in the North Caspian Sea PSA, which includes the Kashagan field in the Kazakh sector of the Caspian Sea. The North Caspian Operating Company is the operator. This shallow-water field covers around 3,400 square kilometres. Shell has a 7.4% interest in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC), which owns and operates an oil pipeline running from the Caspian Sea to the Black Sea across parts of Kazakhstan and Russia. We hold our interest in the CPC via three legal entities. Two of these are wholly owned by Shell and the other is a joint venture with Rosneft, Rosneft-Shell Caspian Ventures Ltd (Cyprus) (RSCV) (Shell interest 49%), which was formed in 1996 to own and manage pipeline capacity rights. We continue to manage our interest in CPC held through RSCV in full compliance with applicable laws, including sanctions. We have several matters in dispute involving non-operated ventures and the Republic of Kazakhstan, including court proceedings in respect of a sulphur permitting outcome and two arbitrations under the applicable production-sharing agreements. While we and the non-operated ventures have consistently upheld our commitment to legal compliance, adherence to all applicable laws, regulations, and production-sharing agreements, and we are actively defending our position in these proceedings, there remains a high degree of uncertainty regarding the outcomes, as well as the potential effects on future operations, earnings, cash flows and Shell's financial condition. See Note 32 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 286-288. 55 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Upstream continued Kuwait Shell Kuwait Exploration and Production B.V. (Shell interest 100%) holds three enhanced technical service agreements (ETSA) with Kuwait Oil Company. The ETSA Jurassic Gas, the ETSA Heavy Oil and ETSA Conventional Oil all run to 2029. Malaysia Shell explores for and produces oil and gas off the coast of Sabah and Sarawak under 20 PSCs, in which our interests range from 20% to 92.5%. Offshore Sabah We operate two producing oil fields: the Malikai deep-water field (Shell interest 35%) in the Block G PSC, and the unitised Gumusut-Kakap Geronggong-Jagus East (GKGJE) field in the Block J PSC which straddles the Malaysia–Brunei border (Shell interest 37.89%). We hold a 50% operated participating interest in the exploration phase Block 2W, Block X, Block ND6 and Block ND7 PSCs. Our exploration activities in Block ND6 and Block ND7 PSCs were suspended in 2005 because of Malaysia's border disputes with Indonesia. Our non-operated portfolio includes two producing fields: the unitised Siakap North-Petai deep-water field in Block G PSC (Shell interest 21%) and the Kebabangan Cluster PSC (Shell interest 30%), along with the Ubah Cluster PSC (Shell interest 35%), currently in the pre-development stage. We also hold interests in exploration phase Block SB 2K, Block N and Block 2V PSCs, which range from 25.1% to 40%. Offshore Sarawak We are the operator of four PSCs producing gas and oil, holding interests ranging from 30% to 75% under the MLNG, SK308, SK408 and SK318 PSCs. Nearly all the gas produced offshore Sarawak is supplied to Malaysia LNG (MLNG) and to the Shell MDS gas-to-liquids plant in Bintulu. We also continue to explore in the MLNG PSC. The SK318 PSC contains the Timi field (Shell interest 75%), the unitised Rosmari field (Shell interest 68%) and the unitised Marjoram field (Shell interest 72%). Rosmari–Marjoram is a natural gas project currently under development, situated around 220 kilometres off the coast of Bintulu, comprising a remotely operated offshore platform and onshore gas plant. The production facilities for these fields will mainly be powered by renewable energy from solar power offshore and hydroelectric power onshore. We hold participating interests ranging from 45% to 92.5% in the exploration Block SK437, Blocks SK439/440, Block 3B and Block 5E PSCs. In our non-operated portfolio, we hold a 20% interest in the Pegaga field under the SK320 PSC and a 30% interest in the Jerun, Larak and Bakong fields which are part of the SK408 PSC. See "Integrated Gas" on pages 45-51. Oman Shell has a 34% interest in Petroleum Development Oman (PDO), which operates the Block 6 oil concession. Shell is entitled to 34% of oil produced from Block 6 through its interest in Private Oil Holdings Oman Ltd. We have a 50% interest in Block 42 under an exploration and production-sharing agreement (EPSA) where Shell is the operator. We also operate in Block 55 under an EPSA (Shell interest 100%). We are in the process of relinquishing our interests in Block 42 and Block 55 to the government. See "Integrated Gas" on pages 45-51. Syria Shell holds a 65% interest in Syria Shell Petroleum Development B.V. (SSPD), a joint venture between Shell and the China National Petroleum Corporation. SSPD holds a 31.25% interest in Al Furat Petroleum Company, a Syrian joint stock company whose role was to perform petroleum operations. Shell also holds a 70% interest in two exploration licences via Shell South Syria Exploration B.V. In December 2011, in compliance with international sanctions on Syria, including European Council Decision 2011/782/CFSP, Shell suspended all exploration and production activities in Syria and its participation in and/or support for activities related to Al Furat Petroleum Company. In the first half of 2025, most US sanctions in relation to Syria were revoked but all activities remain suspended. Syria is still classified by the USA as a State Sponsor of Terrorism (SST), there are still significant Syria-related designations, and some export controls remain. SSPD continued to fulfil minimum contractual obligations towards the Syrian finance and labour ministries, in compliance with applicable trade control laws. [A] [A] In 2025, as part of the minimum contractual obligations, payments for taxes related to salary and social security amounted to $282. In addition, in 2025, in compliance with applicable sanctions on Syria, we reimbursed three employees for visas and for renewal of passports of family members paid to the Syrian Embassy in Kuwait, totalling $1,049.44. Rest of Middle East and Asia Shell has certain interests in the United Arab Emirates including a 15% shareholding in the Abu Dhabi Gas Industries Limited ("ADNOC Gas Processing") operating joint venture, which is a key supplier of natural gas in the country. Africa Nigeria In 2025, Shell held a number of interests in onshore and offshore oil exploration and production assets in Nigeria. Onshore In March 2025, Shell completed the sale of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) to Renaissance. As part of the transaction and ongoing business arrangements, Shell provided loan facilities for amounts of up to $2.5 billion. More recently, in December 2025 and January 2026, Shell's share of these loan facilities has been reduced by $1 billion through a loan syndication. Shell will continue to support Renaissance in the development of its gas reserves and performance of the export feedgas business. Offshore Our main offshore activities are carried out by our wholly owned subsidiary Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Limited (SNEPCo). SNEPCo has interests in three deep-water blocks that are under PSC terms: the producing assets Bonga (OML 118) and Erha (OML 133), and the non-producing asset Bolia Chota (OML 135). SNEPCo operates OML 118 (Shell interest 65%), including the Bonga field FPSO vessel. SNEPCo also operates OML 135 (Shell interest 55%), encompassing the Bolia and Doro fields. SNEPCo has a 43.8% non-operated interest in OML 133 (including the Erha FPSO). In addition, SNEPCo holds a 40% interest in a non-producing shallow-water lease (OML 144) that is held in a joint venture with Sunlink Energies. In May 2025, we announced the acquisition of an additional interest in the OML 118 PSC, subject to conditions. We completed this agreement in November 2025 and increased our interest in the OML 118 PSC from 55% to 65%. In October 2025, we announced an FID on the HI gas project under OML 144, following the conclusion of a gas supply agreement with Nigeria LNG Ltd (NLNG). Under this agreement, gas produced from the HI field will be supplied to NLNG. During 2025, SNEPCo held a 50% interest in OPL 245. On March 4, 2026, this licence was converted under Nigeria’s Petroleum Industry Act (2021) into two development leases (PML 102 and PML 103) and 56 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Upstream continued two exploration licenses (PPL 2011 and PPL 2012), held by SNEPCo (35%), Nigeria Agip Exploration (35%) and Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL) (30%). In addition, SNEPCo was awarded a 50% interest in a PSC with NNPCL in respect of NNPCL’s 30% interest in these licences and leases. See Note 32 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 286-288 for more information about OPL 245. Business update Security issues, sabotage and crude oil theft in the Niger Delta have posed significant challenges to our onshore operations. In March 2025, we completed the sale of SPDC, which has reduced our exposure to risks associated with onshore operations. Notwithstanding the above, in our remaining business activities in Nigeria, we continue to face various risks and adverse conditions that could have a significant adverse effect on our operational performance, earnings, cash flows and financial condition. See "Environment" on pages 135-137. There are limitations to the extent to which we can mitigate these risks. We monitor the security situation and liaise with host communities, and governmental and non-governmental organisations to help promote peaceful and safe operations for our people and local communities. We test the economic and operational resilience of our Nigerian projects against a range of assumptions and scenarios. When we participate in joint ventures in Nigeria, we require that they operate in accordance with good industry practice. We seek to proportionally share risks and funding commitments with joint-venture partners. Rest of Africa Shell also has interests in Algeria, Namibia, São Tomé and Príncipe, South Africa and Tunisia. In 2021, Shell announced plans to hand back upstream assets associated with the Miskar and Hasdrubal concessions to the government of Tunisia. In June 2022, Shell handed back the Miskar concession upon its expiry. Shell is in the process of terminating its activities in Tunisia, including relinquishing the Hasdrubal concession. North America USA The majority of our oil and gas interests in the USA comprise leases for federal offshore blocks in the deep waters of the Gulf of America. Such leases usually have a fixed primary term and, once production is established, remain in effect through continued production, subject to compliance with the relevant terms and provisions (including applicable laws and regulations). Gulf of America Shell's major production area in the USA is the Gulf of America (GoA). We have a total of 285 active federal offshore leases where Shell is the operator, and 29 active federal offshore leases where Shell has a non-operated interest. We are the operator of 10 production hubs: Mars (Shell interests 33.7% to 100%), Olympus (Shell interests 71.5% to 100%), Auger (Shell interests 27.5% to 100%), Perdido (Shell interests 32.5% to 40%), Ursa (Shell interests 50% to 100%), Enchilada/Salsa (Shell interests 37.5% to 75%), Appomattox (Shell interests 79% to 100%), Vito (Shell interest 63.1%), Stones (Shell interest 100%) and Whale (Shell interest 58.5%). We also have an interest in the West Delta 143 offshore processing facilities (Shell interest 71.5%). We continue to produce from the Coulomb field (Shell interest 100%), which ties into the Na Kika platform (Shell interest 50%) and which is co-owned and operated by BP Exploration and Production Inc. We continued exploration, development and decommissioning activities in the GoA in 2025. In January 2025, we began production at the Shell-operated Whale stand-alone host (Shell interest 58.5%). Whale is expected to produce up to 117,000 boe/d at peak rates in 2026. In April 2025, we began production at Dover (Shell interest 100%), the second subsea tieback to the Shell-operated Appomattox production hub (Shell interest 79%). Dover is expected to produce up to 14,000 boe/d at peak rates in 2027. In May 2025, we continued to build our GoA portfolio through inorganic growth, acquiring an additional 15.96% working interest in the Ursa platform/field (Shell interest now 61.35%). In December 2025, an FID was taken on a "waterflood" project at the Kaikias field (Ursa platform) where water will be injected to displace additional oil. This process is due to begin in 2028 and is expected to extend the production life of the Ursa facility by several years. Rest of North America Shell also has deep-water licences and one shallow-water licence in Mexico, and we are in the process of relinquishing them to the government of Mexico. South America Argentina Shell has interests in the onshore Vaca Muerta Basin in the Neuquén Province. We are the operator of the following areas: Cruz de Lorena, Sierras Blancas, Coiron Amargo Sur Oeste (Shell interest 90% in each) and Bajada de Añelo (Shell interest 50%). We have non-operated interests in the areas: Rincon La Ceniza and La Escalonada (Shell interest 45% in each), both operated by Vaca Muerta Investments SAU, and in Bandurria Sur (Shell interest 30%), operated by YPF S.A. Shell has a participating interest in the oil pipeline connecting Sierras Blancas and the regional distribution network and is the administrator in the joint property agreement that regulates its operation (Shell interest 60%). Shell also has a participating interest in the oil pipeline in the northern area of the basin, which connects to the Pacific Evacuation Route (Shell interest 13.3%), operated by YPF S.A., and a participating interest in VMOS S.A. whose main purpose is the construction of a 437 km pipeline to export unconventional crude oil production from Vaca Muerta to the Atlantic coast (Shell interest 8.2%). In the north-western Argentina basin, we have a non-operated interest in the onshore Acambuco area (Shell interest 22.5%), operated by Pan American Energy. We are also the operator of two frontier exploration blocks offshore Argentina, CAN107 and CAN109 (Shell interest 60% in each). In 2025, we relinquished a non-operated interest in an adjacent block, CAN100 (Shell interest 30%), operated by Equinor. 57 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Upstream continued Delivering in the Gulf of America In the Gulf of America (GoA), Shell is a leading producer and operates 10 production hubs — making it a heartland for our deep-water operations. With decades of experience, we are leveraging our significant geological and technical expertise to deliver energy profitably and at lower costs, while reducing emissions. Operational excellence In 2023, our operations began a transformation to help deliver Shell's strategy to deliver more value with less emissions. This transformation journey is built on a foundation of safety and with a focus on performance, discipline and simplification. In 2022, our asset controllable availability in the GoA was 87% and rose to 91% in 2024. Our 2024 production was 343 kboe/d, supported by over 96% controllable reliability for the second consecutive year. We also completed major turnarounds at Auger and Enchilada Salsa ahead of schedule, minimising downtime and maximising output. In 2025, asset controllable availability remained high at 88% and our production in the year was 377 kboe/d with 94% controllable reliability. We completed turnarounds at our Vito, Ursa, and Mars assets. This performance is the result of plans tailored to each asset's life cycle -- whether late-life, mature or a newer, lower-cost host like Vito (Shell interest 63.1%) and Whale (Shell interest 58.5%), which exemplifies operational prowess. Starting production in January 2025, Whale was designed for nameplate output of 100,000 boe/d and reached this capacity within less than half the planned time. We now expect peak production to be 117,000 boe/d in 2026 [A]. Technology and innovation We power our activities by advanced technologies and innovation, helping to reduce costs and accelerate timelines. By using existing infrastructure for tiebacks and infill drilling, we have optimised resource utilisation. For example, in April 2025, we began production at Dover (Shell interest 100%), the second subsea tieback to our operated Appomattox hub (Shell interest 79%). Dover is expected to produce up to 14,000 boe/d at peak rates. Digitalisation plays a critical role. Remotely connected platforms enable real-time data collection and live-streamed equipment inspections, reducing offshore travel and cutting maintenance costs — most of Whale's operations are managed from New Orleans, which is about 600 kilometres away from the platform. Enhanced recovery techniques, such as water flooding and gas lift, have also been employed to help improve efficiency. In December 2025, a final investment decision was taken on a waterflood project at the Kaikias field for the Ursa platform (Shell interest 61.35%). Here, water will be injected to displace additional oil. This is due to begin in 2028 and is expected to extend Ursa's production life cycle by several years. Our people Across Shell, people development is a priority. In the GoA, we have upskilled our teams through additional training, such as in AI and data literacy, and safety technology and robotics -- enhancing their operational capability to help us drive performance. Shell puts a focus on safety first, and in the GoA, as elsewhere, we are using cutting-edge tools -- like robotics for high-risk inspections and managed pressure drilling systems -- to help improve safety. Our GoA business demonstrates how disciplined execution, operational excellence and technology‑led innovation can deliver strong performance from a mature deep‑water portfolio. Through improved reliability, efficient project delivery and the use of advanced digital and subsurface technologies, we are maximising value from our assets while reducing costs and emissions. Our focus on safety, people capability and fit‑for‑purpose solutions across the asset life cycle underpins performance, even in challenging operating conditions. This competitiveness positions Shell to close the gap to potential and be best-in-basin, delivering resilient energy today while building long‑term value. 1. Gulf of America deep-water platform, Mars, 2025. [A] The estimated peak production is 100% total gross figure. 58 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Upstream continued Brazil Shell operates the Bijupirá and Salema fields (Shell interest 80% in each), which are being decommissioned; the producing fields in BC-10 block (Shell interest 50%) in the Campos Basin; and the Gato do Mato and adjacent Sul de Gato do Mato areas in the Santos Basin (Shell interest 70% [A]), which are subject to an ongoing unitisation process. In March 2025, Shell announced an FID on Gato do Mato, a deep-water offshore project, which is scheduled to start operations in 2029. The project was renamed Orca after the Declaration of Commerciality. We also hold interests as operator in 15 exploration blocks in the Santos Basin (Shell interests 70% to 100%), six exploration blocks in the Barreirinhas Basin (Shell interests 50% to 100%), three in the Campos Basin (Shell interests 40% to 100%) and one in the Potiguar Basin (Shell interest 100%). Our non-operated portfolio consists of eight producing fields in the offshore Santos Basin and one producing area in the offshore Campos Basin: ￮ the Sapinhoá field (Shell interest 30%, operated by Petrobras and straddling the BM-S-9 and Entorno de Sapinhoá blocks already unitised and redetermined); ￮ the Lapa field (Shell interest 27%[B] in BM-S-9A block, operated by TotalEnergies); ￮ the Berbigão and Sururu fields (Shell interest 25% in BM-S-11A block, operated by Petrobras and subject to an ongoing unitisation process); ￮ the Atapu field (Shell interest 16.7% and straddling the BM-S-11A and Atapu PSC area already unitised); ￮ the Tupi field (Shell interest 22.65%, already unitised and redetermined, in BM-S-11 block and operated by Petrobras). In December 2025, the redetermination of Tupi became effective, resulting in a reduction of our participation interest in the unit from 23.02% to 22.65%; ￮ the Iracema field (Shell interest 25% in BM-S-11 block and operated by Petrobras); ￮ the Mero field in the Libra PSC area (Shell interest 19.3%, unitised and operated by Petrobras); and ￮ the Jubarte area (Shell interest 0.43%, operated by Petrobras) in the Campos Basin. In August 2025, the Jubarte unitisation was approved by the regulator. This comprises an extension into the Argonauta field in BC-10 block. In addition to the producing assets, we hold interests in 33 non-operated exploration blocks: two in the Santos Basin (Shell interests 20% to 40%, operated by Petrobras); two in the Potiguar Basin (Shell interests 40%, both operated by Petrobras); and 29 blocks in the Pelotas Basin (Shell interests 30%, all operated by Petrobras). In May 2025, production began at the Alexandre de Gusmão FPSO in the Mero field. This addition brings the total number of FPSOs in Mero to four, alongside an early production system, resulting in a combined installed production capacity of 770,000 b/d (100% total gross figure). In December 2025, we secured additional equity in Brazil's pre-salt oil projects following an auction led by Pré-Sal Petroléo. Together with Petrobras, we deepened our stake in the Atapu and Mero units, acquiring 26.76% of Atapu Open Acreage (0.95% of the unit) and 20% of Mero Open Acreage (3.5% of the unit). With this acquisition, we will increase our participating interests in the units from 16.663% to 16.917% in Atapu and from 19.3% to 20% in Mero. The increased working interests are expected to take effect from 2027. [A] In January 2026, Shell increased its interest in Gato do Mato from 50% to 70%, following the completion of a swap agreement with TotalEnergies. In February 2026, Shell agreed to sell a 20% interest to Kuwait Petroleum Exploration Company. Following completion, subject to regulatory approvals, Shell will maintain a 50% interest and will remain the operator. [B] In January 2026, Shell reduced its interest in the Lapa field from 30% to 27%, following the completion of a swap agreement with TotalEnergies. Rest of South America Shell also has interests in Suriname and Uruguay. In Uruguay, Shell holds 100% interests in offshore blocks OFF-2 and OFF-7, and a non-operated 50% equity position in OFF-4. Trading and supply Shell markets and trades equity crude oil from its Upstream operations through our main trading offices in the UK, Singapore, the USA, The Bahamas and Canada. We are active in most crude oil markets and, with our global network of supply and distribution activities and shipping and maritime capabilities, we manage and optimise the supply of crude to Shell's refineries and the sale of crude to third-party customers. Contractual frameworks of oil and gas activities The conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under which oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country. In almost all cases outside North America, legal agreements are generally granted by, or entered into with, a government, state-owned company, government-run oil and gas company or agency. The exploration risk usually rests with the independent oil and gas company. In North America, these agreements may also be with private parties that own mineral rights. Of these agreements, the following are most relevant to our interests: ￮ Licences (or concessions), which entitle the holder to explore for hydrocarbons and exploit any commercial discoveries. Under a licence, the holder bears the risk of exploration, development and production activities, and is responsible for financing these activities. In principle, the licence holder is entitled to the totality of production less any royalties in kind. The government, state-owned company or government-run oil and gas company may sometimes enter into a joint arrangement as a participant, sharing the rights and obligations of the licence but usually without sharing the exploration risk. In a few cases, the state-owned company, government-run oil and gas company or agency has an option to purchase a certain share of production. ￮ Lease agreements, which are typically used in North America, are usually governed by terms similar to licences. Participants may include governments or private entities. Royalties are paid either in cash or in kind. ￮ Production-sharing contracts (PSCs) are entered into with a government, state-owned company or government-run oil and gas company. PSCs generally oblige the independent oil and gas company, as contractor, to provide all the financing and bear the risk of exploration, development and production activities in exchange for a share of the production. Usually, this share consists of a fixed or variable part that is reserved for the recovery of the contractor's cost (cost oil). The remaining production is split with the government, state-owned company or government-run oil and gas company on a fixed or volume-revenue-dependent basis. In some cases, the government, state-owned company or government-run oil and gas company will participate in the rights and obligations of the contractor and will share in the costs of development and production. Such participation can be across the venture or on a field-by-field basis. Additionally, as the price of oil or gas increases above certain pre-determined levels, the independent oil and gas company's entitlement share of production normally decreases, and vice versa. Accordingly, its interest in a project may not be the same as its entitlement. 59 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Upstream continued Gato do Mato, now "Orca", is testament to resilience and discipline In March 2025, we reached the final investment decision (FID) on the Gato do Mato deep-water project in Brazil's Santos Basin, about 200 kilometres offshore Rio de Janeiro. This marked the culmination of a 15-year effort with a number of challenges faced. What we viewed as a good opportunity to invest in became even better and is testament to the resilience, innovation and initiative of the people involved. Shell is the largest foreign producer in Brazil, and the country is a cornerstone of our upstream operations. The project is designed to deliver peak production of up to 120,000 b/d, reinforcing our leadership in deep-water development. Rethinking our approach The path to taking an FID was far from straightforward. Oil was first discovered in 2010, but initial leases lacked sufficient potential to justify development. Securing an adjacent block through a competitive bid delayed progress for years. When we relaunched the project in 2022 as "Gato do Mato 2.0", global market volatility, driven by the Russia–Ukraine conflict and pandemic-related supply chain disruptions, pushed costs sharply higher. These challenges demanded changes to keep the project viable. Rather than abandon the opportunity, our team rethought its approach. Working closely with Modec, the contractor responsible for the floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) unit, we applied lessons from projects like Vito and Whale in the Gulf of America to redesign the development. This collaboration produced significant results: production capacity is expected to increase by 20%, compared to the previous design, projected overall costs are expected to fall by nearly 16% and the expected topside weight was reduced by 30% as a result of removing unnecessary equipment. The project, now renamed Orca, incorporates a simplified FPSO design coupled with a streamlined subsea system and well layout strategy that enables optimised volume recovery while providing flexibility for future development. The field development choices made post-recycle reduced costs and accelerated recovery while cutting expected greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to the earlier project designs. Innovation and cost discipline These improvements reflect our ability to adapt under pressure, combining technical innovation with strict cost discipline to overcome market and operational challenges. The Orca design is not only efficient but also scalable, opening opportunities for future deep-water projects and smaller field developments globally. In January 2026, we increased our interest in Orca from 50% to 70%, following the completion of a swap agreement with TotalEnergies. In February 2026, we agreed to sell a 20% interest to Kuwait Petroleum Exploration Company. Following completion, subject to regulatory approvals, we will maintain a 50% interest in Orca. Orca now moves into execution. Shell Brasil operates the project with partners Ecopetrol (30%) and PPSA as the contract manager. The FPSO is set to be built in China and Japan and installed offshore Brazil in 2028. Orca is expected to begin operations in 2029. This achievement underscores how Shell's resilience and disciplined approach turned a complex, delayed project into a viable and forward-looking development. 1. First hull block being placed in the dry dock at Sumitomo Heavy Industries Marine & Engineering Yokosuka. 60 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value Oil and gas information This section sets out information about Shell's oil and gas exploration and production activities, which include the extraction of oil, condensates, natural gas liquids, oil sands and natural gas from their natural reservoirs. These activities are undertaken within the Integrated Gas, Upstream and the Chemicals and Products (includes oil sands) segments. They do not represent the full extent of the activities of these segments, and exclude gas-to-liquids (GTL) processing, some liquefied natural gas (LNG) activities, trading and optimisation, and other non-extractive activities. Proved developed and undeveloped reserves of Shell subsidiaries and Shell share of joint ventures and associates Crude oil and natural gas liquids (million barrels) Synthetic crude oil (million barrels) Natural gas (thousand million scf) Total (million boe) Shell subsidiaries At January 1, 2025 3,526 741 22,558 8,156 Increase/(decrease) in 2025: Revisions and reclassifications 242 — 1,515 504 Improved recovery 16 — — 16 Extensions and discoveries 44 — 755 174 Purchases and sales of minerals in place [C] (193) (725) (2,113) (1,282) Total before taking production into account 109 (725) 157 (588) Production [A] (518) (16) (2,590) (981) Total (409) (741) (2,433) (1,569) At December 31, 2025 3,117 — 20,125 6,587 Shell share of joint ventures and associates At January 1, 2025 363 — 6,384 1,464 Increase/(decrease) in 2025: Revisions and reclassifications 37 — 251 80 Improved recovery — — — — Extensions and discoveries — — 13 2 Purchases and sales of minerals in place [C] 56 — 131 79 Total before taking production into account 93 — 395 161 Production [B] (27) — (363) (89) Total 66 — 32 72 At December 31, 2025 429 — 6,416 1,536 Totals At January 1, 2025 3,889 741 28,942 9,620 Increase/(decrease) before taking production into account 202 (725) 552 (427) Production (545) (16) (2,953) (1,070) Total increase/(decrease) (343) (741) (2,401) (1,497) At December 31, 2025 3,546 — 26,541 8,123 Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in Shell subsidiaries at December 31, 2025 — — — — [A] Includes 44 million boe consumed in operations (natural gas: 249 thousand million scf; synthetic crude oil: 1 million barrels). [B] Includes 4 million boe consumed in operations (natural gas: 26 thousand million scf). [C] Includes the divestment of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC), and the swap of Shell's remaining mining interest and associated synthetic crude oil reserves in the Canadian oil sands for an additional 10% interest (20% in total) in the Scotford upgrader and Quest CCS facility. Also includes the volumes movement from subsidiaries to joint ventures and associates due to formation of the Adura joint venture. 61 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Oil and gas information continued Proved reserves Before taking production into account, our proved reserves decreased by 427 million boe in 2025. This consisted of a decrease of 588 million boe from Shell subsidiaries and an increase of 161 million boe from the Shell share of joint ventures and associates. After taking production into account, our proved reserves decreased by 1,497 million boe in 2025 to 8,123 million boe at December 31, 2025. Shell subsidiaries Before taking production into account, Shell subsidiaries' proved reserves decreased by 588 million boe in 2025. This consisted of a decrease of 725 million barrels of synthetic crude oil, an increase of 109 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids, and an increase of 28 million boe (157 thousand million scf) of natural gas. The 588 million boe decrease comprised a net decrease of 1,282 million boe related to purchases and sales of minerals in place, a net increase of 504 million boe from revisions and reclassifications, an increase of 174 million boe from extensions and discoveries, and an increase of 16 million boe from improved recovery. After taking into account production of 981 million boe (of which 44 million boe were consumed in operations), Shell subsidiaries' proved reserves decreased by 1,569 million boe in 2025 to 6,587 million boe. In 2025, Shell subsidiaries' proved developed reserves (PD) decreased by 1,249 million boe to 5,097 million boe and proved undeveloped reserves (PUD) decreased by 320 million boe to 1,490 million boe. Shell share of joint ventures and associates Before taking production into account, the Shell share of joint ventures and associates' proved reserves increased by 161 million boe in 2025. This consisted of an increase of 93 million barrels of crude oil and natural gas liquids, and an increase of 68 million boe (395 thousand million scf) of natural gas. The 161 million boe increase comprised a net increase of 80 million boe from revisions and reclassifications, a net increase of 79 million boe related to purchases and sales in place and an increase of 2 million boe from extensions and discoveries. After taking into account production of 89 million boe (of which 4 million boe were consumed in operations), the Shell share of joint ventures and associates' proved reserves increased by 72 million boe to 1,536 million boe at December 31, 2025. The Shell share of joint ventures and associates' PD increased by 40 million boe to 557 million boe, and PUD increased by 32 million boe to 979 million boe. See "Supplementary information - oil and gas (unaudited)" on pages 291-309 for more information about proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and the Shell share of the proved oil and gas reserves of joint ventures and associates. Proved undeveloped reserves In 2025, Shell subsidiaries' and the Shell share of joint ventures and associates' PUD decreased by 288 million boe to 2,469 million boe. There were decreases of 357 million boe as a result of maturation to PD (mainly 100 million boe in Whale (USA), 59 million boe in Mero (Brazil), 37 million boe in Ormen Lange (Norway), and 161 million boe spread across other fields); a net decrease of 169 million boe as a result of purchases and sales of minerals in place (mainly a decrease of 163 million boe due to divestment of SPDC in Nigeria, a decrease of 38 million boe due to movement of Shell-UK fields to the Adura joint venture which was partly offset by an increase of 19 million boe following the formation of the Adura joint venture, and an increase of 13 million boe spread across other fields); an increase of 62 million boe due to de-maturation of PD to PUD; an increase of 176 million boe due to extensions and discoveries (mainly 85 million boe in Geryon (Australia) and 91 million boe spread across other fields); an increase of 16 million boe due to improved recovery; and a net decrease of 16 million boe due to revisions and reclassifications. In addition to the maturation of 357 million boe from PUD to PD, 68 million boe were matured to PD as through PUD as a result of project execution during the year. PUD held for five years or more (PUD5+) on December 31, 2025, amounted to 40 million boe, a decrease of 98 million boe compared with the end of 2024. The decrease in PUD5+ during 2025 was driven mainly by the divestment of SPDC (Nigeria). The fields with the largest PUD5+ on December 31, 2025 were Kashagan (Kazakhstan), Clair (UK), Tupi (Brazil) and Atapu (Brazil). These PUD5+ remain undeveloped because of third-party gas plant delays (Kazakhstan), rig constraints (UK) and constraints related to export pipeline commissioning and drilling constraints due to development phasing (Brazil). During 2025, we spent $9.6 billion on development activities related to PUD maturation. Delivery commitments We sell crude oil and natural gas from our producing operations under a variety of contractual obligations. Most contracts generally commit us to sell quantities based on production from specified properties, although some natural gas sales contracts specify delivery of fixed and determinable quantities, as discussed below. In the past three years, we met our contractual delivery commitments, with the notable exception of Malaysia (in 2023) [A]. In the period 2026-2028, we are contractually committed to deliver to third parties, joint ventures and associates a total of some 4,395 billion scf of natural gas from our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. The sales contracts contain a mixture of fixed and variable pricing formulae that are generally referenced to the prevailing market price for crude oil, natural gas or other petroleum products at the time of delivery. In the period 2026-2028, we expect to meet our delivery commitments with an estimated 70% coming from PD, 5% through the delivery of gas that becomes available to us from paying royalties in cash, and 25% from the development of PUD and other new projects and purchases. [A] See the Form 20-F (page 54) for the year ended December 31, 2023, as filed with the SEC. 62 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Oil and gas information continued Summary of proved oil and gas reserves of Shell subsidiaries and Shell share of joint ventures and associates (at December 31, 2025) Based on average prices for 2025 Crude oil and natural gas liquids (million barrels) Natural gas (thousand million scf) Synthetic crude oil (million barrels) Total (million boe) [A] Proved developed Europe 75 2,127 — 442 Asia 1,266 9,006 — 2,819 Oceania 35 4,290 — 775 Africa 93 113 — 113 North America — — — — USA 330 370 — 393 Canada 1 250 — 44 South America 896 996 — 1,068 Total proved developed 2,696 17,152 — 5,654 Proved undeveloped Europe 10 171 — 40 Asia 412 5,129 — 1,296 Oceania 31 1,999 — 375 Africa 75 91 — 91 North America — — — — USA 76 68 — 88 Canada — — — — South America 246 1,931 — 579 Total proved undeveloped 850 9,389 — 2,469 Total proved developed and undeveloped Europe 85 2,298 — 482 Asia 1,678 14,135 — 4,115 Oceania 66 6,289 — 1,150 Africa 168 204 — 204 North America — — — — USA 406 438 — 481 Canada 1 250 — 44 South America 1,142 2,927 — 1,647 Total 3,546 26,541 — 8,123 Reserves attributable to non-controlling interest in Shell subsidiaries — — — — [A] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel. 63 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Oil and gas information continued Exploration Shell continues to explore for and mature hydrocarbons across our Integrated Gas and Upstream businesses. Exploration may result in discoveries of oil and gas that we can develop, helping maintain energy security and contributing to our strategy. We use our integrated exploration, development, and project, commercial and technical expertise to mature these opportunities and actively manage technical and non-technical risks. We benchmark our projects internally and externally to improve the competitiveness of our proposals and seek to actively manage the risks during implementation. We assess the maturation progress of our various opportunities and perform post-investment reviews to extract learnings for implementation in future opportunities and to strengthen delivery predictability. In 2025, hydrocarbons were found in the UK, Oman and Gulf of America. Key exploration portfolio developments UK We relinquished two operated licences (Shell interests 55.5% and 100%) and also one operated block (Shell interest 100%). Following the completion of the combination of Shell and Equinor's UK offshore oil and gas assets into the Adura joint venture on December 1, 2025, all Shell UK working interests in exploration licences will be reduced by 50%. Gulf of America We farmed into four non-operated licences in the Walker Ridge area (Shell interests 22.5%). We also acquired 14 operated leases (Shell interest 51% in each) as part of an interest transfer involving 19 leases already held and three acquired (Shell interest 51%, operator). Additionally, we acquired one operated lease (Shell interest 75%) and three non-operated (Shell interests 30.6%). We relinquished 28 operated leases (Shell interests 35% to 100%) and 35 non-operated leases (Shell interests 25% to 50%). Brazil We acquired four blocks in the Santos Basin in the OPC5 Bid Round (Shell interest 100%, operator). Other In Bulgaria, we signed a Prospecting and Exploration Agreement with the Bulgarian government for an offshore licence in the Western Black Sea (Shell interest 100%). In Norway, the government ratified one operated licence (Shell interest 30%). We also relinquished four non-operated licences (Shell interests 20% to 40%) and one operated licence (Shell interest 40%). In São Tomé and Príncipe, we farmed out 55% of our interest in one operated block and our remaining interest is 30%. In Argentina, we relinquished one non-operated licence (Shell interest 30%). In Suriname, we farmed out 20% of our interest in one operated block and our remaining interest is 40%. See "Supplementary information - oil and gas (unaudited)" on pages 291-309. Location of oil and gas exploration and production activities Location of oil and gas exploration and production activities [A] (at December 31, 2025) Exploration Development and/or Production Shell operator [B] Europe Albania [C] ● ● Bulgaria ● ● Cyprus ● Germany ● Italy ● Netherlands ● ● Norway ● ● ● UK ● ● ● Asia Brunei ● ● ● China ● ● Kazakhstan ● Malaysia ● ● ● Oman ● ● ● Qatar ● ● Oceania Australia ● ● ● Africa Egypt ● ● ● Namibia ● ● Nigeria ● ● ● São Tomé and Príncipe ● ● South Africa ● ● Tanzania ● ● ● North America Barbados ● Canada ● ● ● Mexico ● ● USA ● ● ● South America Argentina ● ● ● Bolivia ● Brazil ● ● ● Suriname ● ● Trinidad and Tobago ● ● ● Uruguay ● ● Venezuela [D] ● ● [A] Includes joint ventures and associates. Where a joint venture or an associate has properties outside its base country, those properties are not shown in this table. [B] In several countries where "Shell operator" is indicated, Shell is the operator of some but not all exploration and/or production ventures. [C] Shell issued a notice of non-commerciality in 2025 to the government of Albania. [D] Our previous Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) licence was withdrawn in 2025 in line with US policy at the time, meaning that we have been unable to undertake any activities related to our Venezuela interest since then. In mid-February 2026, the USA issued several general licences that authorise various activities in Venezuela, including one that allows certain companies to engage in oil and gas operations in Venezuela and produce from its reserves. We are currently reviewing these general licences to understand how they impact our activities. 64 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Oil and gas information continued Oil and gas production available for sale Crude oil and natural gas liquids [A] Thousand barrels 2025 2024 2023 Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Europe Italy 7,707 — 8,551 — 8,373 — UK 24,583 1,477 22,910 — 23,458 — Other [B] 3,082 439 2,730 526 2,493 524 Total Europe 35,372 1,916 34,191 526 34,324 524 Asia Brunei 1,274 17,547 1,148 15,987 1,271 14,395 Kazakhstan 39,783 — 37,744 — 38,765 — Malaysia 11,680 — 11,763 — 12,630 — Oman 89,228 — 86,235 — 82,849 — Other [B] 24,741 7,287 24,068 7,392 25,240 7,443 Total Asia 166,706 24,834 160,958 23,379 160,755 21,838 Oceania Australia 10,740 — 12,775 — 10,370 — Total Oceania 10,740 — 12,775 — 10,370 — Africa Nigeria 24,424 — 39,758 — 37,137 — Other [B] 972 — 978 — 1,084 — Total Africa 25,396 — 40,736 — 38,221 — North America USA 117,417 — 108,090 — 112,912 — Canada 568 — 538 — 597 — Total North America 117,985 — 108,628 — 113,509 — South America Argentina 15,482 — 15,610 — 12,152 627 Brazil 145,788 — 133,355 — 136,825 — Other [B] 946 — 1,240 — 1,425 — Total South America 162,216 — 150,205 — 150,402 627 Total 518,415 26,750 507,493 23,905 507,581 22,989 [A] Reflects 100% of production of subsidiaries except in respect of production-sharing contracts (PSCs), where the figures shown represent the entitlement of the subsidiaries concerned under those contracts. [B] Comprises countries where production was lower than 10,100 thousand barrels or where specific disclosures are prohibited. Synthetic crude oil Thousand barrels 2025 2024 2023 Shell subsidiaries Shell subsidiaries Shell subsidiaries North America - Canada 15,182 18,548 19,102 65 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Oil and gas information continued Natural gas [A] Million standard cubic feet 2025 2024 2023 Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Europe Netherlands — 26,757 — 37,601 — 55,351 Norway 173,302 — 176,629 — 150,318 — UK 74,893 4,948 61,098 — 70,585 — Other [B] 35,382 — 36,570 38,774 — Total Europe 283,577 31,705 274,297 37,601 259,677 55,351 Asia Brunei 12,571 145,497 15,276 144,410 13,531 136,684 China 30,127 — 39,592 — 48,170 — Kazakhstan 73,822 — 75,668 — 75,521 — Malaysia 197,532 — 219,485 — 173,638 — Oman 87,883 — 83,520 — 55,675 — Other [B] 361,487 117,726 354,653 118,375 369,125 118,252 Total Asia 763,422 263,223 788,194 262,785 735,660 254,936 Oceania Australia 690,675 41,955 736,482 39,281 700,248 29,773 Total Oceania 690,675 41,955 736,482 39,281 700,248 29,773 Africa Egypt 45,766 — 27,737 — 21,434 — Nigeria 24,434 — 129,533 — 96,967 — Other [B] 1,192 — 3,022 — 3,423 — Total Africa 71,392 — 160,292 — 121,824 — North America USA 117,267 — 100,971 — 104,079 — Canada 158,925 — 152,576 — 137,660 — Total North America 276,192 — 253,547 — 241,739 — South America Bolivia 28,958 — 33,453 — 35,432 — Brazil 72,099 — 66,534 — 71,162 — Trinidad and Tobago 135,334 — 159,937 — 199,877 — Other [B] 19,812 — 17,942 — 14,204 857 Total South America 256,203 — 277,866 — 320,675 857 Total 2,341,461 336,883 2,490,678 339,667 2,379,823 340,917 [A] Reflects 100% of production of subsidiaries except in respect of PSCs, where the figures shown represent the entitlement of the subsidiaries concerned under those contracts. [B] Comprises countries where production was lower than 41,795 million scf or where specific disclosures are prohibited. 66 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Oil and gas information continued Average realised price by geographical area Crude oil and natural gas liquids $/barrel 2025 2024 2023 Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Europe 64.83 65.29 70.82 76.61 77.19 79.10 Asia 66.70 69.10 76.13 79.77 76.57 82.24 Oceania 56.76 — 63.98 — 58.31 — Africa 71.73 — 79.63 — 84.33 — North America - USA 62.94 — 74.07 — 75.07 — North America - Canada 31.56 — 38.52 — 46.45 — South America 60.49 — 71.85 — 71.93 67.98 Total 63.83 69.04 74.04 79.70 75.12 81.75 Synthetic crude oil $/barrel 2025 2024 2023 Shell subsidiaries Shell subsidiaries Shell subsidiaries North America - Canada 58.66 68.35 69.26 Natural gas $/thousand scf 2025 2024 2023 Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Europe 12.76 9.34 12.76 9.63 17.47 18.89 Asia 2.45 6.57 2.62 7.23 2.84 7.60 Oceania 9.33 5.65 10.47 6.40 11.05 6.23 Africa 9.27 — 3.02 — 3.25 — North America - USA 4.20 — 3.50 — 3.74 — North America - Canada 1.40 — 1.19 — 2.25 — South America 3.75 — 4.13 — 5.10 3.69 Total 6.29 6.67 6.47 7.44 7.40 9.78 67 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Oil and gas information continued Average production cost by geographical area Crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas [A] $/boe 2025 2024 2023 Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Shell subsidiaries Shell share of joint ventures and associates Europe 17.07 23.16 17.05 28.54 20.93 25.33 Asia 6.33 7.95 6.33 9.10 6.35 9.64 Oceania 8.23 14.52 7.85 19.49 9.01 21.23 Africa 11.78 — 11.95 — 11.12 — North America - USA 8.78 — 10.11 — 9.62 — North America - Canada 9.01 — 9.30 — 9.70 — South America 8.47 — 7.51 — 7.36 9.03 Total 8.73 9.83 8.74 11.60 9.08 12.29 [A] Natural gas volumes are converted into oil equivalent using a factor of 5,800 scf per barrel. Synthetic crude oil $/barrel 2025 2024 2023 Shell subsidiaries Shell subsidiaries Shell subsidiaries North America - Canada 19.76 17.00 19.47 68 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value Marketing The Marketing segment comprises the Mobility, Lubricants, and Sectors and Decarbonisation businesses. The Mobility business operates Shell's retail network including electric vehicle charging services and the wholesale commercial fuels business, which provides fuels for transport and industry. The Lubricants business produces, markets and sells lubricants for road transport, and machinery used in manufacturing, mining, power generation, agriculture and construction. The Sectors and Decarbonisation business sells fuels, speciality products and services, including low-carbon energy solutions, to a broad range of commercial customers including the aviation, marine and agricultural sectors. 2.1 Income/(loss) for the period ($ billion) (2024: 1.7) 4.0 Adjusted Earnings ($ billion) (2024: 3.9) 6.3 Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion) (2024: 7.4) 2,753 Marketing sales volumes (thousand b/d) (2024: 2,843) We are pursuing focused growth in our high-return Mobility and Lubricants businesses. The Marketing business delivered strong results in 2025, with a continuing focus on value over volume. Mobility and Lubricants delivered higher margins through increased sales of premium products whilst also reducing operating costs. Both Mobility and Lubricants achieved their best-ever results in 2025, though Sectors and Decarbonisation margins fell. This strong performance was supported by the divestment or closure of lower-performing branded retail sites and the high-grading of our portfolio. In line with our strategic focus on disciplined capital allocation to help ensure competitive returns, we decided in September 2025 not to restart construction of the planned biofuels facility at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rotterdam. Construction was paused in 2024. For the business conditions relevant to Marketing, see "Market overview" on pages 42-44. “Both Mobility and Lubricants achieved their best-ever results in 2025 as we continued to focus on value over volume and disciplined performance across the portfolio.“ Machteld de Haan President, Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions 69 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Marketing continued Financial delivery 2025 earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items. Adjusted Earnings increased by $109 million compared with 2024. This reflected higher Marketing margins (increase of $413 million) including Mobility and Lubricants, due to improved unit margins, partly compensated by lower Sectors and Decarbonisation margins. This was partly offset by unfavourable tax movements ($326 million). Identified items in 2025 included net impairment charges and reversals of $1,384 million and provisions of $186 million, both of which included the impact of the decision not to restart construction of the planned biofuels facility at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park in Rotterdam. These charges compare with the full year 2024, which included net impairment charges and reversals of $1,423 million, net losses of $386 million related to the sale of assets and charges of $215 million related to redundancies and restructuring. Adjusted EBITDA was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings. Prior year earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items. Adjusted Earnings increased by $573 million compared with 2023. This reflected higher Marketing margins (increase of $483 million) including higher unit margins in Lubricants and Mobility. This was partly offset by lower Sectors and Decarbonisation margins. Adjusted Earnings also reflected lower operating expenses (decrease of $449 million). These were partly offset by unfavourable tax movements ($157 million) and higher depreciation charges (increase of $142 million). Photo: Shenzhen electric vehicle charging station, China. [A] All earnings amounts are shown post-tax unless otherwise stated. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. Key metrics [B] $ million, except where indicated 2025 2024 2023 Income/(loss) for the period 2,057 1,709 2,690 Identified items [B] (1,708) (1,990) (254) Adjusted Earnings* [B] [C] 3,994 3,885 3,312 Adjusted EBITDA* [C] [D] 7,993 7,476 6,337 Cash flow from operating activities* 6,339 7,363 5,561 Cash capital expenditure 1,862 2,445 5,790 Marketing sales volumes (thousand b/d) 2,753 2,843 3,045 [B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 243-251. [C] Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. [D] Adjusted EBITDA is without taxation and DD&A expenses. Identified items in 2024 included net impairment charges and reversals of $1,423 million, mainly related to an asset in the Netherlands, net losses of $386 million related to the sale of assets, and charges of $215 million related to redundancies and restructuring. These charges compare with the full year 2023, which included net impairment charges and reversals of $466 million, and charges of $113 million related to redundancies and restructuring, partly offset by gains of $298 million related to indirect tax credits. Adjusted EBITDA was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings. Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from operating activities in 2025 was primarily driven by Adjusted EBITDA and dividends (net of profits/losses) from joint ventures and associates of $729 million. These inflows were partly offset by working capital outflows of $609 million, tax payments of $566 million, net outflows relating to the timing impact of payments related to emission certificates and biofuel programmes of $310 million and non-cash cost of supplies adjustment of $305 million. Cash capital expenditure Cash capital expenditure of $1.9 billion in 2025 included $0.5 billion in low-carbon energy solutions, compared with $0.8 billion in 2024. Cash capital expenditure in low-carbon energy solutions was higher in 2024, mainly due to the spend in the biofuels facility at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park in Rotterdam. Our cash capital expenditure is expected to be in the range of $2-3 billion in 2026. 70 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Marketing continued Operational performance Marketing sales Marketing sales volumes, which comprise hydrocarbon sales, decreased compared with 2024. This was mainly as a result of reduced sales volumes in Mobility due to portfolio changes, including the impact of divestments, and in Sectors and Decarbonisation. Number of electric vehicle charge points In 2025, the number of electric vehicle charge points owned or Shell- branded was almost 88,000 compared with almost 73,000 in 2024. Strategic progress Portfolio and business developments Significant portfolio and business developments: ￮ In June 2025, we completed the acquisition of Raj Petro Specialities Pvt Ltd from the Brenntag Group. This acquisition supports our goal to strengthen our lubricants portfolio and customer base in India. ￮ In September 2025, we announced the decision not to restart the construction of the planned biofuels facility at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park in Rotterdam, which had been paused in 2024. ￮ In May 2025, we agreed to transfer ownership of our Indonesia mobility business to a joint venture between Citadel Pacific Limited and Sefas Group [A], and we signed an agreement to sell our Mexico mobility sites [A]. [A] Transaction subject to completion. Business and property Mobility Shell Mobility is one of the world's largest mobility retailers by number of sites, with more than 40,000 Shell-branded mobility sites, including service stations, in more than 80 markets at the end of 2025. In 2025, the number of Shell-branded mobility locations fell to 42,724 from 44,109 in 2024. We operate different models across our markets, from full ownership of sites to brand licensing agreements. We are focusing on markets that provide higher returns on investment. Following the 2024 divestment of Shell Pakistan, in 2025, we agreed to transfer ownership of the Indonesia mobility business, including 200 sites, to a new joint venture between Citadel Pacific and Sefas Group. We also agreed to sell the Mexico mobility businesses. To increase market focus we will spend 80% of cash capital expenditure in 10 key markets that account for the majority of cash flow. Every day, around 29 million retail customers visit Shell-branded mobility sites for a range of quality fuels, electric vehicle charging, and convenience and non-fuel products and services. Through Shell Fleet Solutions, our business customers can obtain fuel cards, road services and carbon-offset offers, among other products and services. We are expanding our convenience retail offer to cater to our customers' needs. At many of our sites, we offer convenience items, including beverages and fresh food, and services, such as lubricant changes and car washes. At the end of 2025, Shell operated around 13,000 convenience stores worldwide. We have upgraded more than 2,900 Shell-operated stores with our Shell Café premium fresh coffee and food offer since it launched in 2021. Shell Mobility offers customers products and services, including biofuels and electric vehicle charging. At the end of 2025, we had almost 88,000 public charge points globally at Shell forecourts, on-street locations, mobility hubs and other sites, such as supermarkets. Shell's global electric vehicle charging business is not yet profitable. However, we remain committed to investing in this sector as we anticipate future profitability. The timeline and extent of this profitability will be influenced by factors such as network accessibility, market competition, customer demand, advancements in cost-related technologies and supportive government policies. As we work to provide low-carbon alternatives to our customers, we also continue to develop traditional fuels for drivers of internal combustion engine vehicles. Aided by our partnership with Scuderia Ferrari HP, we have concentrated on developing fuels with special formulations designed to clean engines and improve performance. An example of this is Shell V-Power. We sold fuels under the Shell V-Power brand in 71 markets in 2025. Shell Fleet Solutions is also working to help drive decarbonisation of the transport sector by providing fuels, lubricants and digital services to customers with heavy-duty vehicles in their fleets. We have a public electric vehicle charging facility for trucks in Hamburg, Germany, which has four fast-charging stations. We also offer drivers using heavy-duty LNG-fuelled trucks access to Shell-operated and partner networks in Europe. We have LNG refuelling sites in Austria and Hungary. Trading and Supply Through our main trading and supply offices in London, Houston, Singapore, Dubai, Rotterdam and Canada, we trade low-carbon fuels, refined products, chemical feedstocks and environmental products. We trade in physical and financial contracts, and have wholesale commercial fuel activities. Shell Wholesale Commercial Fuels provides fuels for transport, industry and heating — from reliable main-grade fuels to premium products. With about 180 Shell and joint-venture (including pipeline) terminals and operating in around 25 countries, our infrastructure is well positioned to make deliveries around the world. Lubricants Shell Lubricants has been the number one global finished lubricants supplier in terms of market share for 19 consecutive years, according to Kline & Company data for 2024. Shell lubricants are available in around 175 markets for passenger cars, motorcycles, trucks, coaches, and machinery used in manufacturing, mining, power generation, agriculture and construction. In addition to making premium lubricants for conventional vehicles, we also make Shell E-Fluids from base oils made from natural gas at the Pearl gas-to-liquids (GTL) plant in Qatar. These base oils can be used in electric vehicles, data centres, and health care and beauty products. See "Shell's cooling fluids certified by Intel for use in data centres worldwide" on page 73. Our global lubricants supply chain has a network of 31 lubricants blending plants, four base oil plants (one of which we operate), 10 grease plants and five GTL base oil storage hubs. Shell Lubricants also has a strong distributor network of almost 1,600 distributors, including large-scale, large-volume multinational organisations. 71 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Marketing continued Sectors and Decarbonisation The Sectors and Decarbonisation business sells fuels, speciality products and services -- including low-carbon energy solutions — to a broad range of commercial customers including the aviation, marine and agricultural sectors. Aviation Shell Aviation provides aviation fuel, lubricants and low-carbon solutions globally. Shell's Avelia platform is one of the world's first blockchain-powered sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) book-and-claim solutions. Avelia aims to scale SAF, reducing the life-cycle greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of aviation and enabling greater participation in the aviation sector's decarbonisation efforts by providing wider access to the GHG benefits of SAF across the value chain. Wider production and supply, driven by increased demand, could help lower the price point for these fuels. Since launch, Avelia has injected more than 64 million gallons of SAF into the fuel network at 18 airports around the world and supported more than 66 airlines and corporate customers in accessing the environmental attributes of SAF. Photo: Shell Aviation supplies sustainable aviation fuel to Delta. Marine Shell Marine serves around 15,000 ships every year. Our customers' vessels range from ocean-going tankers to fishing boats. We supply seven types of fuel, more than 500 grades of lubricants and low-carbon solutions. Our lubricants are used in around 10,000 vessels and are available in more than 700 ports across more than 50 countries. Shell has the world's largest LNG bunkering network with 29 locations across 13 countries. BioLNG is available at 22 of these locations across Europe and the USA. Shell Marine also supplies chemical products, and marine-related technical and digital services. Biofuels In line with our strategic focus on disciplined capital allocation to help ensure competitive returns, we decided in 2025 not to restart construction of the planned biofuels facility at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rotterdam. Construction had been paused in 2024. In 2025, around 10.34 billion litres of biofuels (2024: 10.37 billion litres) were blended into Shell's sales of fuels worldwide, which include the Shell share of sales made by Raízen. Raízen produced, on a 100% basis, around 2.73 billion litres of ethanol in 2025 (2024: 3.16 billion litres). Shell and the non-operated joint venture Raízen (Shell interest 44%) are, together, one of the world's largest blenders and distributors of biofuels. Biofuels, along with natural gas, will play a key role in reducing emissions from heavy-duty transport. Renewable natural gas (RNG), also known as biogas or biomethane, is gas derived from processing organic waste in a controlled environment until it is fully interchangeable with conventional natural gas. Shell Biogas is one of Europe's largest producers of RNG following the acquisition of Nature Energy in 2023. Marketing data tables Branded mobility locations [A] 2025 2024 2023 Europe 7,285 8,227 8,346 Asia [B] 7,573 7,742 10,824 Oceania [B] 1,205 1,047 1,087 Africa 3,027 2,994 2,917 Americas [C] 23,634 24,099 23,830 Total [D] 42,724 44,109 47,004 [A] Includes different models, from full-ownership retail sites and sites operated by joint ventures, through to trademark licensing agreements; and excludes sites closed for more than six months. [B] Asia includes Turkey; Oceania includes French Polynesia, Guam, Palau and Saipan. [C] 2025 includes around 8,125 sites operated by the Raízen joint venture. [D] 2025 includes 7,716 sites operated through trademark licensing agreements. 72 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Marketing continued Marketing sales volumes [A][B][C] Thousand b/d 2025 2024 2023 Europe Mobility 577 611 626 Lubricants 15 16 16 Sectors and Decarbonisation 158 192 186 Total 750 819 828 Asia Mobility 586 594 607 Lubricants 44 40 39 Sectors and Decarbonisation 85 104 138 Total 715 738 784 Africa Mobility 63 63 74 Lubricants 3 2 3 Sectors and Decarbonisation 7 6 9 Total 73 71 86 Americas Mobility 780 790 919 Lubricants 23 23 24 Sectors and Decarbonisation 412 402 404 Total 1,215 1,215 1,347 Total product sales Mobility 2,006 2,057 2,226 Lubricants 85 82 82 Sectors and Decarbonisation 662 704 737 Total 2,753 2,843 3,045 Gasolines 1,240 1,282 1,321 Kerosenes 375 391 386 Gas/diesel oils 924 960 1,012 Fuel oil 21 22 23 Other products [D] 193 188 303 Total 2,753 2,843 3,045 [A] Excludes deliveries to other companies under reciprocal sale and purchase arrangements that are in the nature of exchange contracts. [B] Includes the Shell share of Raízen's sales volumes and other joint ventures' sales volumes. [C] Excludes sales volumes from markets where Shell operates under trademark licensing agreements. [D] Includes LPG sales volumes of 22 thousand b/d (2024: 26 thousand b/d; 2023: 29 thousand b/d). Shell's cooling fluids certified by Intel for use in data centres worldwide Data centres are vital for the internet, but the rapid growth of artificial intelligence (AI) and big data has created a challenge for managing the heat generated by these centres. Without efficient cooling, servers risk overheating and this can lead to costly outages. Traditional cooling systems -- air or water -- consume significant energy and so alternatives are sought. In 2025, Shell Lubricants' immersion cooling fluids became the first to earn Intel Data Center Certification for Immersion Cooling, with confirmed compatibility with 4th and 5th Gen Intel Xeon processors. The certification follows two years of rigorous testing, which demonstrated that processors remain as reliable in Shell's immersion cooling fluids as in traditional air-cooled systems. Immersion cooling works by submerging servers and networking equipment in a non-conductive liquid that absorbs and dissipates heat far more efficiently than air. By eliminating the need for chillers, fans and evaporative cooling systems, this approach can also significantly reduce data centre floor space. Innovation sets us apart Shell's immersion cooling fluids, developed in our own laboratories, are already in use at Shell data centres in Houston and Amsterdam. They are PFAS-free, biodegradable to varying degrees, and suitable for hot and humid environments. The fluids also qualify for Intel's Immersion Warranty Rider, providing additional assurance for data centre operators. This breakthrough aligns with Shell's broader strategy to invest in premium, high-value products that help customers meet emission reduction goals. As the world's leading lubricants supplier, Shell is leveraging decades of expertise in gas-to-liquids technology to deliver sustainable solutions for the growing demands of digital infrastructure. The technology can reduce energy use costs substantially, while supporting dramatic reductions in water consumption. Photo: Shell Technology Center, Houston, USA. 73 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value Chemicals and Products Chemicals and Products includes chemicals manufacturing plants with their own marketing network and refineries which turn crude oil and other feedstocks into a range of oil products, which are moved and marketed around the world for domestic, industrial and transport use. The segment also includes the pipeline business, trading and optimisation of crude oil, oil products and petrochemicals. 0.3 Income/(loss) for the period ($ billion) (2024: 1.7) 1.1 Adjusted Earnings ($ billion) (2024: 2.9) 5.4 Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion) (2024: 7.3) 1,217 Refinery processing intake (thousand b/d) (2024: 1,344) We aim to unlock more value and improve returns from our portfolio of Chemicals assets by exploring strategic and partnership opportunities in the USA. In Europe, we are also exploring the high-grading of some assets and the selective closure of others. In 2025, Chemicals margins remained under pressure in a tough macro environment leading to continued losses in the business. Products earnings weakened due to lower contributions from trading and supply, despite improvements in refining margins. We continued to implement our strategy through disciplined capital allocation and the high-grading of our portfolio. In 2025, we completed the divestment of the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore and sold non-core assets such as the Colonial Pipeline interest, generating $1 billion in proceeds. We are also working to reposition our Chemicals portfolio to unlock further value. For the business conditions relevant to Chemicals and Products, see "Market overview" on pages 42-44. 1,005 Product sales volumes (thousand b/d) (2024: 1,052) 9,260 Chemicals sales volumes (thousand tonnes) (2024: 11,875) “In 2025, we executed several value-led moves to high-grade our portfolio and unlock further value.“ Machteld de Haan President, Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions 74 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Chemicals and Products continued Financial delivery 2025 earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items. Adjusted Earnings in 2025 decreased by $1,883 million compared with 2024. This reflected lower Products margin (a decrease of $972 million) driven mainly by lower margins from trading and optimisation, partly offset by higher refining margins. Adjusted Earnings also reflected lower Chemicals margins (decrease of $604 million) and unfavourable tax movements ($485 million). These net unfavourable movements were partly offset by lower operating expenses (decrease of $138 million). Identified items in 2025 included: ￮ net impairment charges and reversals of $634 million and net gains from the disposal of assets of $564 million mainly relating to gains from the sale of our interest in Colonial Enterprises, Inc. These charges and movements compare with the full year 2024, which included net impairment charges and reversals of $1,176 million mainly relating to assets in Singapore, charges of $142 million related to redundancy and restructuring, and unfavourable movements of $86 million relating to an accounting mismatch due to fair value accounting of commodity derivatives, partly offset by favourable deferred tax movements of $114 million. In 2025, Adjusted Earnings from Chemicals accounted for (108)%, Refining for 82% and Trading and Optimisation for 126%. The decrease in Adjusted Earnings of $1,883 million was driven by the following: ￮ Products Adjusted Earnings were $1,189 million lower than in 2024, mainly driven by lower trading and optimisation and oil sands margins and unfavourable tax movements, partly offset by higher refining margins and lower operating expenses. ￮ Chemicals negative Adjusted Earnings were $693 million higher than in 2024, mainly because of lower margins and unfavourable tax movements. Adjusted EBITDA was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings. Prior year earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items. Adjusted Earnings in 2024 decreased by $683 million compared with 2023. This reflected lower Products margins (a decrease of $1,832 million), mainly driven by lower refining margins and unfavourable tax movements ($248 million). These were partly offset by lower operating expenses (decrease of $812 million) and higher Chemicals margins (increase of $602 million). Identified items in 2024 included: ￮ net impairment charges and reversals of $1,176 million mainly relating to assets in Singapore; ￮ charges of $142 million related to redundancy and restructuring; and ￮ unfavourable movements of $86 million relating to an accounting mismatch due to fair value accounting of commodity derivatives, partly offset by favourable deferred tax movements of $114 million. [A] All earnings amounts are shown post-tax unless otherwise stated. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. Key metrics [B] $ million, except where indicated 2025 2024 2023 Income/(loss) for the period 262 1,671 1,204 Identified items [B] (377) (1,177) (2,135) Adjusted Earnings* [B] [C] 1,051 2,934 3,616 Adjusted EBITDA* [C] [D] 4,880 6,783 7,489 Cash flow from operating activities* 5,366 7,253 7,513 Cash capital expenditure 3,063 3,290 3,014 Chemicals manufacturing plant utilisation (%) 78% 76% 68% Refinery utilisation (%) 92% 85% 85% Refinery processing intake (thousand b/d) 1,217 1,344 1,349 Product sales volumes (thousand b/d) 1,005 1,052 1,078 Chemicals sales volumes (thousand tonnes) 9,260 11,875 11,245 [B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 243-251. [C] Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. [D] Adjusted EBITDA is without taxation and DD&A expenses. These charges and movements compare with the full year 2023, which included net impairment charges and reversals of $2,195 million mainly relating to the Chemicals assets in Singapore, and charges of $82 million related to redundancy and restructuring partly offset by favourable movements of $214 million relating to an accounting mismatch due to fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. In 2024, Adjusted Earnings from Chemicals accounted for (15)%, Refining for 34% and Trading and Optimisation including pipelines for 81%. The decrease in Adjusted Earnings of $683 million was driven by the following: ￮ Products Adjusted Earnings were $1,818 million lower than in 2023, mainly driven by lower refining and oil sands margins, unfavourable tax movements and higher depreciation partly offset by lower operating expenses. ￮ Chemicals negative Adjusted Earnings were $1,135 million lower than in 2023, mainly because of higher margins and lower operating expenses, and lower depreciation. Adjusted EBITDA was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings. Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from operating activities in 2025 was primarily driven by Adjusted EBITDA, net inflows related to the timing impact of payments for emission certificates and biofuel programmes of $1,260 million and dividends (net of profits) from joint ventures and associates of $404 million. These inflows were partly offset by net cash outflows relating to commodity derivatives of $761 million and non-cash cost of supplies adjustment of $567 million. Shell's policy is to settle the inter-segment use of tax attributes between business segments. This settlement is usually made in cash but in certain instances there is no cash settlement. In 2025, deferred tax assets of the Integrated Gas ($211 million) and Corporate ($89 million) segments were used by the Chemicals and Products ($300 million) segment, for which no cash settlement was made. Cash capital expenditure Cash capital expenditure decreased by $0.2 billion in 2025 to $3.1 billion mainly because of lower spend in Singapore and China. Our cash capital expenditure is expected to be around $3 billion in 2026. 75 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Chemicals and Products continued Operational performance Chemicals manufacturing plant utilisation Utilisation is defined as the actual use of the plants as a percentage of the rated capacity. Chemicals manufacturing plant utilisation of 78% was 2 percentage points higher than in 2024. Refinery utilisation Utilisation is defined as the actual use of the plants as a percentage of the rated capacity. Refinery utilisation of 92% was seven percentage points higher than in 2024, mainly due to lower planned maintenance in 2025. Chemicals and Products sales Chemicals sales volumes were 22% lower than in 2024, mainly due to the portfolio impact from the divestment of Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore divestment and lower polyethylene volumes. Products sales volumes were 4% lower than in 2024 due to lower Trading sales volumes in Asia partly offset by increases in Europe. Strategic progress Portfolio and business developments Significant portfolio and business developments: ￮ In January 2025, CNOOC and Shell Petrochemicals Company Limited (CSPC), a 50:50 joint venture between Shell Nanhai B.V. and CNOOC Petrochemicals Investment Ltd, took the final investment decision to expand its petrochemical complex in Daya Bay, Huizhou, south China. ￮ In April 2025, we completed the previously announced sale of Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore to CAPGC Pte. Ltd. (CAPGC), a joint venture between Chandra Asri Capital Pte. Ltd. and Glencore Asian Holdings Pte. Ltd. ￮ In July 2025, we completed the sale of our 16.1% interest in Colonial Enterprises Inc. to Colossus AcquireCo LLC. Business and property Chemicals We operate chemical plants worldwide and have a balance of locations, feedstocks and products. Products made from chemicals are used in everyday life, including in medical equipment, construction, transport, electronics, agriculture and sports. Our plants produce a range of base chemicals, including ethylene, propylene and aromatics, and intermediate chemicals, such as styrene monomer, propylene oxide, solvents, linear alpha olefins, detergent alcohols, ethylene oxide, ethylene glycol and polyethylene. We have the capacity to produce around 6.7 million tonnes of ethylene a year (including the Shell share of capacity entitlement (offtake rights) of joint ventures and associates, which may be different from nominal equity interest). Shell Polymers Monaca, our Pennsylvania chemical facility, experienced intermittent utilisation during 2025. This has been addressed and we expect improved utilisation in 2026. Products – Refining and Trading Refining We have direct interests in seven refineries, with a total capacity to process 1.4 million barrels of crude oil a day. The distribution of our refining capacity is 64% in Europe, 32% in the Americas and 4% in Asia. We took the final investment decision (FID) in 2024 to convert the hydrocracker of the Wesseling site at the Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland in Germany into a production unit for Group III base oils. Crude oil processing ended at the Wesseling site in 2025 and will continue at the Godorf site. See "Rheinland decarbonises operations and expands hydrogen production" on page 80. Trading and Supply Through our main trading offices in London, Houston, Singapore, Dubai, The Bahamas, Rotterdam and Canada, we trade crude oil, low-carbon fuels, refined products, chemical feedstocks and environmental products. We trade in physical and financial contracts, lease storage and transportation capacities, and manage global shipping activities. Our global network of supply and distribution activities and shipping and maritime capabilities enables the safe delivery of products under our contracts and this includes supplying feedstock for our refineries and chemical plants, and finished products such as gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel to our Marketing segment and customers. Pipelines We own and operate three tank farms across the USA through Shell Pipeline Company LP (Shell interest 100%). It transports around 1.5 billion barrels of crude oil, refined products and chemicals a year through around 5,400 kilometres of pipelines in the Gulf of America and eight US states. Our pipelines carry more than 40 types of crude oil and more than 20 grades of fuel including petrol, diesel and aviation fuel, and chemicals including ethylene. We own, operate, develop and acquire pipelines and other midstream and logistics assets. Our assets include interests in entities that own crude oil and refined products pipelines and terminals that serve as key infrastructure to: ￮ transport onshore and offshore crude oil production to US Gulf Coast and Midwest refining markets; and ￮ deliver refined products from those markets to major demand centres. Our assets also include interests in entities that own natural gas and refinery gas pipelines that transport offshore natural gas to market hubs and deliver refinery gas from refineries and plants to chemical sites along the US Gulf Coast. Oil sands In November 2025, we completed the previously announced agreement with Canadian Natural Resources Limited to swap our remaining 10% interest in the Albian mining and extraction operations in exchange for an additional 10% interest in the Scotford upgrader and Quest Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) facility. Following the completion of this swap, Shell holds a 20% interest in the Scotford upgrader and Quest CCS facility and no longer has any oil sands activities. Quest CCS captures about 1 million tonnes per year of CO 2 from the hydrogen manufacturing units within the upgrader. Since opening in 2015, Quest CCS has safely stored more than 9 million tonnes of CO 2 . 76 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Chemicals and Products continued Chemicals and Products data tables The tables below reflect Shell subsidiaries and instances where Shell owns the crude oil or feedstocks processed by a refinery. Other joint ventures and associates are only included where explicitly stated. Products sales volumes [A][B] Thousand b/d 2025 2024 2023 Europe 560 507 560 Asia 144 248 240 Americas 301 297 278 Total 1,005 1,052 1,078 Gasolines 144 141 154 Kerosenes 110 94 104 Gas/diesel oils 289 321 346 Fuel oil 147 200 221 Other products [C] 315 296 252 Total 1,005 1,052 1,078 [A] Excludes deliveries to other companies under reciprocal sale and purchase arrangements, which are in the nature of exchanges. Sales of condensate are included. [B] Certain contracts are held for trading purposes and reported net rather than gross. The effect in 2025 was a reduction in refining and trading sales of around 1,304 thousand b/d (2024: 1,286 thousand b/d; 2023: 1,202 thousand b/d). [C] Includes LPG sales volumes of 56 thousand b/d (2024: 54 thousand b/d; 2023: 55 thousand b/d). Cost of crude oil processed or consumed [A] $/barrel 2025 2024 2023 Total 66.78 77.97 71.13 [A] Includes Upstream and Integrated Gas margins on crude oil supplied by Shell subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. Crude distillation capacity [A] Thousand b/stream day [B] 2025 2024 2023 Europe 868 975 975 Asia 59 237 237 Africa — — — Americas 435 435 435 Total 1,362 1,646 1,646 [A] Average operating capacity for the year, excluding mothballed capacity. [B] Stream day capacity is the maximum capacity with no allowance for downtime. Crude oil processed [A] Thousand b/d 2025 2024 2023 Europe 726 742 732 Asia 37 165 168 Americas 369 359 322 Total 1,132 1,266 1,222 [A] Includes natural gas liquids, share of joint ventures and associates and processing for others. Refinery processing intake [A] Thousand b/d 2025 2024 2023 Europe 738 742 764 Asia 37 166 171 Americas 442 437 414 Total 1,217 1,344 1,349 [A] Includes crude oil, natural gas liquids and feedstocks processed in crude distillation units and in secondary conversion units. Refinery processing outturn [A] Thousand b/d 2025 2024 2023 Gasolines 416 486 489 Kerosenes 134 162 168 Gas/diesel oils 454 506 516 Fuel oil 79 80 88 Other 217 186 149 Total 1,299 1,419 1,410 [A] Excludes own use and products acquired for blending purposes. 77 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Chemicals and Products continued Manufacturing plants at December 31, 2025 Refineries Thousand barrels/stream day, 100% capacity [B] Location Asset class Shell interest (%) [A] Crude distillation capacity Thermal cracking/ visbreaking/ coking Catalytic cracking Hydro- cracking Europe Germany Miro [C] 32 313 40 96 — Rheinland 100 235 16 — 75 Schwedt [C] 38 234 46 57 — Netherlands Pernis 100 447 — 53 104 Americas Argentina Buenos Aires [D] 44 112 14 22 — Canada Alberta Scotford 100 100 — — 83 Ontario Sarnia 100 85 5 21 10 USA Louisiana Norco 100 250 29 119 44 [A] Shell interest is rounded to the nearest whole percentage point; Shell share of production capacity may differ. [B] Stream day capacity is the maximum capacity with no allowance for downtime. [C] Not operated by Shell. [D] Owned through Raízen joint venture. Integrated refinery and chemical complex Refinery complex with cogeneration capacity Refinery complex with chemical unit(s) Chemicals data tables The tables below reflect Shell subsidiaries and instances where Shell owns the crude oil or feedstocks processed by a refinery. Other joint ventures and associates are only included where explicitly stated. Ethylene capacity [A] Thousand tonnes/year 2025 2024 2023 Europe 1,693 1,713 1,710 Asia [B] 1,381 2,542 2,542 Americas [C] 3,901 3,821 3,821 Total 6,975 8,076 8,073 [A] In 2025, ethylene capacity includes the Shell share of capacity entitlement (offtake rights) of joint ventures and associates, which may be different from nominal equity interest. [B] Includes Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore, the sale of which was completed in April 2025. [C] Shell Polymers Monaca, which began operations in November 2022, was not fully functional during 2023 due to operational and start-up challenges which were resolved during the first quarter of 2024. In 2025, an additional defect intermittently impacted utilisation. This has subsequently been corrected. Chemicals sales volumes [A] Thousand tonnes/year 2025 2024 2023 Europe Base chemicals 1,947 2,113 1,741 Intermediates and other chemical products 1,815 1,889 1,848 Total 3,762 4,001 3,589 Asia Base chemicals 242 1,198 1,190 Intermediates and other chemical products 564 1,744 1,917 Total 806 2,943 3,107 Americas Base chemicals 1,297 1,366 1,508 Intermediates and other chemical products 3,395 3,566 3,041 Total 4,692 4,932 4,549 Total product sales Base chemicals 3,486 4,677 4,439 Intermediates and other chemical products 5,774 7,199 6,806 Total 9,260 11,875 11,245 [A] Excludes feedstock trading and by-products. 78 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Chemicals and Products continued Major chemical plants [A] Thousand tonnes/year, Shell share capacity [B] Location Ethylene Polyethylene Styrene monomer Ethylene glycol Higher olefins [C] Additional products Europe Germany Rheinland 307 — — — — A Netherlands Moerdijk 971 — 815 153 — A, I UK Mossmorran [D] [E] 415 — — — — O Asia China Nanhai [D] 1,100 605 645 415 — A, I Americas Canada Scotford — — 519 461 — A, I USA Monaca 1,500 1,600 — — — Deer Park 889 — — — — A, I Geismar — — — 400 1,390 I Norco 1,512 — — — — A Total 6,694 2,205 1,979 1,429 1,390 [A] Major chemical plants are large integrated chemical facilities, typically producing a range of chemical products from an array of feedstocks. [B] Shell share of capacity of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates (Shell- and non-Shell-operated), excluding capacity of the Infineum additives joint ventures. [C] Higher olefins are linear alpha and internal olefins (products range from C4 to C2024). [D] Not operated by Shell. Shell has 50% of capacity rights. [E] In January 2026, ExxonMobil closed the Fife Ethylene Plant (Mossmorran) after announcing this in November 2025. A Aromatics, lower olefins I Intermediates O Other Other chemicals locations [A] Location Products Europe Germany Karlsruhe A Schwedt A Netherlands Rotterdam A, I, O Americas Argentina Buenos Aires I Canada Sarnia A, I [A] Other chemical locations reflect locations with smaller chemical units, typically serving more local markets. A Aromatics, lower olefins I Intermediates O Other 79 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Chemicals and Products continued Rheinland decarbonises operations and expands hydrogen production Shell's Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland is delivering one of its most ambitious projects to date, marking a decisive step toward low-carbon products and advanced technologies. At Wesseling, the long-standing hydrocracker unit -- once central to producing diesel and jet fuel -- is being dismantled to make way for a highly electrified base oils plant. This new facility is expected to produce approximately 300,000 tonnes of Group III base oils annually, meeting around 40% of Germany's demand and 9% of the EU's. These premium base oils are essential for high-performance lubricants, including engine and transmission oils, as well as fluids for electric vehicles -- markets expected to grow significantly. The development is not only about capacity but also about emissions reduction and operational excellence. By ceasing crude oil processing at Wesseling and introducing electrification, Shell expects to cut Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by about 620,000 tonnes per year. This substantial reduction supports Shell's strategy to deliver more value with less emissions. The facility's operators are undergoing rigorous training using advanced simulators, enabling them to identify potential issues before start-up and reduce commissioning time. Advancing hydrogen production Beyond base oils, Rheinland is also advancing renewable hydrogen production through the REFHYNE II project. Following the final investment decision in 2024, construction is under way on a 100-megawatt proton-exchange membrane electrolyser. Scheduled to begin operations in 2027, REFHYNE II will produce up to 44 tonnes of renewable hydrogen daily, powered by renewable electricity secured through long-term agreements. This hydrogen will help decarbonise site operations. The scale and complexity of these developments are vast: thousands of pipes are being reconfigured while maintaining ongoing production. When complete in 2028, the Rheinland base oils plant is expected to be the largest in Germany and among the top 10 in Europe. These achievements highlight Rheinland's evolution from a traditional refinery into a cutting-edge energy and chemicals hub, combining technical innovation, sustainability and operational excellence to meet the demands of a changing world. 1. Boats at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland, Cologne-Godorf, Germany. 2. Wesseling site, part of the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park, Rheinland. 80 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value Renewables and Energy Solutions The Renewables and Energy Solutions segment includes renewable power generation; the marketing, trading and optimisation of power and pipeline gas; and carbon credits. The segment also includes the production and marketing of hydrogen; development of commercial carbon capture and storage hubs; investment in nature-based projects that compensate for carbon emissions; and Shell Ventures, which invests in or works with start-ups and early-stage businesses to help them scale up and grow. (0.5) Income/(loss) for the period ($ billion) (2024: (1.2) 0.2 Adjusted Earnings ($ billion) (2024: (0.5)) 0.6 Cash flow from operating activities ($ billion) (2024: 3.8) 290 External power sales (terawatt hours) (2024: 306) We are focusing on high-grading our Renewables and Energy Solutions portfolio through disciplined investment as we work to unlock value in power and low-carbon solutions. This will support our climate-related targets and ambition, and position us for growth in hydrogen and carbon capture and storage (CCS). In 2025, we divested a number of lower-return assets, withdrawing from projects like Atlantic Shores and Scotwind, while also diluting parts of our Savion portfolio. This allows us to reallocate capital to higher-return segments of the power value chain. These steps are aligning our portfolio with our increased focus on flexible power generation and trading. The Northern Lights joint venture in Norway took a final investment decision to progress Phase 2 of the development, and received its first cargo of CO 2 , injecting it beneath the seabed. We also acquired RISEC Holdings, adding a 609 MW combined-cycle gas plant in the USA. Earnings improved in 2025 with higher generation and energy marketing margins, along with lower operating expenses as a result of portfolio changes and continued exercising of cost discipline. For the business conditions relevant to Renewables and Energy Solutions, see "Market overview" on pages 42-44. 626 Sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers (terawatt hours) (2024: 652) “We continued to high-grade our portfolio and bring our power strategy to life through disciplined execution.” Machteld de Haan President, Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions 81 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued Financial delivery 2025 earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items. Adjusted Earnings in 2025 increased by $669 million compared with 2024. This reflected lower operating expenses (decrease of $279 million) and higher margins (increase of $229 million), mainly due to higher generation and energy marketing margins. Identified items in 2025 included impairment charges and reversals of $334 million and unfavourable movements of $299 million relating to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives. These charges and unfavourable movements compare with the full year 2024 which included net impairment charges and reversals of $1,085 million mainly relating to renewable generation assets in North America, partly offset by favourable movements of $300 million relating to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives and a net gain on sale of assets of $94 million. As part of Shell's normal business, commodity derivative hedge contracts are entered into for the mitigation of economic exposures on future purchases, sales and inventory. Adjusted Earnings were $172 million in 2025. Adjusted Earnings contributions from Energy Marketing and Trading and Optimisation accounted for 333% of Adjusted Earnings, partly offset by negative contributions from Renewable Power Generation, Hydrogen, CCS, Nature Based Solutions (NBS) and Shell Ventures of (233)%. Adjusted EBITDA was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings. Prior year earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes identified items. Adjusted Earnings in 2024 decreased by $1,253 million compared with 2023. This reflected lower margins (decrease of $1,719 million), mainly from trading and optimisation primarily in Europe due to lower volatility. This was partly offset by lower operating expenses (decrease of $632 million). Identified items in 2024 included net impairment charges and reversals of $1,085 million, mainly related to renewable generation assets in North America, and partly offset by favourable movements of $300 million relating to an accounting mismatch due to fair value accounting of commodity derivatives, and a net gain on sale of assets of $94 million. These net charges and favourable movements compare with 2023, which included favourable movements of $2,756 million due to the fair value accounting of commodity derivatives, partly offset by net impairment charges and reversals of $669 million. As part of Shell's normal business, commodity derivative hedge contracts are entered into for the mitigation of economic exposures on future purchases, sales and inventory. Adjusted Earnings were a loss of ($497) million in 2024. Adjusted Earnings from Renewable Power Generation, Hydrogen, CCS, NBS and Shell Ventures accounted for 146% of 2024 negative Adjusted Earnings. These were partly offset by positive Adjusted Earnings contributions from Energy Marketing and Trading and Optimisation (46%). Adjusted EBITDA was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings. [A] All earnings amounts are shown post-tax unless otherwise stated. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. Key metrics [B] $ million, except where indicated 2025 2024 2023 Income/(loss) for the period (489) (1,229) 3,089 Identified items [B] (661) (732) 2,333 Adjusted Earnings* [B] [C] 172 (497) 756 Adjusted EBITDA* [C] [D] 764 (22) 1,481 Cash flow from operating activities* 623 3,798 2,984 Cash capital expenditure 1,866 2,549 2,681 External power sales (terawatt hours) [E] 290 306 279 Sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers (terawatt hours) [F] 626 652 738 [B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 243-251. [C] Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. [D] Adjusted EBITDA is without taxation and DD&A expenses. [E] Physical power sales to third parties; excluding financial trades and physical trade with brokers, investors, financial institutions, trading platforms and wholesale traders. [F] Physical natural gas sales to third parties; excluding financial trades and physical trade with brokers, investors, financial institutions, trading platforms and wholesale traders. Excluding sales of natural gas by other segments and LNG sales. Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from operating activities was primarily driven by Adjusted EBITDA and working capital inflows of $508 million. These inflows were partly offset by net cash outflows related to derivatives of $657 million. Cash capital expenditure Within cash capital expenditure, $1.5 billion was in low-carbon energy solutions. This includes Renewable Power Generation, Environmental Solutions, Hydrogen and CCS. In 2024, cash capital expenditure included $1.6 billion in low-carbon energy solutions. Lower cash capital expenditure in 2025 was mainly a result of the RISEC Holdings acquisition recognised in December 2024. Our cash capital expenditure is expected to be in the range of $2--3 billion in 2026. See page 98 of "Less emissions". Operational performance External power sales In 2025, our external power sales declined compared with 2024, primarily due to lower demand in the US markets and our strategic choice to prioritise value over volume by focusing on higher‑margin sales. This was partly offset by increased sales to direct customers and aggregators in Europe. Sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers In 2025, the decrease in our sales of pipeline gas to end-use customers was mainly driven by the decision to prioritise value over volume, focusing on higher-margin sales. 82 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued Strategic progress Portfolio and business developments Key portfolio and business developments: ￮ In January 2025, we completed an agreement to acquire RISEC Holdings, LLC, which owns a 609 MW two-unit combined-cycle gas turbine power plant in Rhode Island, USA. ￮ In March 2025, the Northern Lights joint venture (Shell interest 33.3%) took an FID to move forward with Phase 2 of the Northern Lights development. ￮ In May 2025, we signed a new Corporate Power Purchase Agreement (CPPA) with Google, which extends the lifespan of the NoordzeeWind offshore wind farm in the Netherlands. ￮ In June 2025, we completed the divestment of 100% Shell interest in Inspire Energy Capital, LLC, a B2C energy business in the USA, to Rhythm Energy, Inc. ￮ In July 2025, Shell subsidiary Savion and a fund managed by the Ares Infrastructure Opportunities strategy formed Tango Holdings, LLC, (Shell interest 20%), a joint venture to manage five assets with 496 MW capacity of Savion-developed solar power in the USA. ￮ In September 2025, we sold 100% Shell share of a cluster of eight ready-to-build Italian solar projects to Gruppo Undo, Italy. ￮ In September 2025, Google selected Shell as its renewable energy manager in the UK, leveraging Shell's trading and battery capabilities to support Google's decarbonisation goals. ￮ In October 2025, we voluntarily withdrew from Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind, LLC, in the USA, assigning our 50% outstanding membership interest to our existing joint-venture partner, EDF-RE Offshore Development, LLC. ￮ In November 2025, as part of the Scotwind leasing round, we and ScottishPower Renewables (SPR) agreed to exchange our 50% stakes in two offshore wind projects. SPR took full ownership of Marram Wind, acquiring our share. We took SPR's share in Campion Wind, taking full ownership which we subsequently terminated, and we returned the lease to Crown Estate Scotland. ￮ In November 2025, we completed the sale of our 49% interest in Cleantech Renewable Assets Pte Ltd to our joint-venture partner Keppel Ltd. Business and property We are maximising the value of our platforms as we continue to high-grade our portfolio and prioritise business models that deliver robust returns, and help us provide effective solutions for our customers. In response to ongoing sector challenges, including supply chain disruptions, regulatory constraints, margin pressure, market volatility and asset impairments in North America and Europe, we have sharpened our focus on value delivery. As part of this strategic refresh, we decided to rebalance capital allocation towards energy storage and flexible generation, in support of an increased focus on power trading. In 2025, we progressed execution of this strategy by reshaping our asset base through divestments and dilutions, scaling flexible generation through acquisitions and leasehold commitments, increased capital discipline and enhancing trading capability. This repositioning supports our ambition to streamline our power portfolio to be more resilient, performance-driven and adaptive to evolving market dynamics. Energy marketing We provide electricity and smart energy solutions to commercial, industrial and residential customers. We do this through direct electricity sales, storage solutions and energy optimisation services. Our largest markets for commercial and industrial customers are Australia, Europe and the USA. In Australia, we are one of the largest commercial and industrial retailers of electricity in the market. Trading and optimisation We trade and optimise power, pipeline gas and carbon credits from our own assets and from third parties. We have a gas and power trading presence in key markets, including the Americas, Europe, Australia and Asia. We work with Shell businesses across regions to offer energy solutions that can help our customers decarbonise. Renewable power generation We enable renewable power generation by owning and participating in joint ventures for and operating solar plants, primarily in India, the USA and Europe, as well as wind farms, mainly in Europe. We are maximising the value of our platforms and continue to high-grade our power portfolio. In the first quarter of 2025, Shell subsidiary Savion achieved full commercial operation of two solar facilities in the USA: the 111 MW Martin County Solar Project in Kentucky, developed on a reclaimed coal mine site, and the 100 MW Kiowa County Solar Project in Oklahoma. In July 2025, Savion established Tango Holdings, LLC, a joint venture with a fund managed by Ares Infrastructure Opportunities. The venture will oversee 496 MW of solar capacity. As part of the agreement, Savion transferred majority ownership of the assets to the joint venture, while retaining a 20% minority interest and operational management responsibilities. Tango includes equity interests in the Martin County and Kiowa County projects, as well as three additional solar projects currently under construction. This is an example of how Shell selectively develops renewable generation projects and reduces ownership as assets mature, supporting efficient scale-up, enhanced capital returns and disciplined capital allocation. We also made strategic decisions to exit certain offshore wind projects. In October 2025, we withdrew from Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind, transferring our 50% interest to EDF-RE Offshore Development. As part of the Scotwind leasing round in the UK and following an internal review, in November 2025, we and SPR agreed to exchange our 50% stakes in two offshore wind projects. SPR took full ownership of Marram Wind, acquiring our share. We took SPR's share in Campion Wind, taking full ownership which we subsequently terminated, and we returned the lease to Crown Estate Scotland. We also divested Cleantech Renewable Assets in November 2025, a solar platform operating in India and Southeast Asia. These actions reflect our focus on high-grading the portfolio and prioritising projects that deliver the strongest value. 83 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued At the end of 2025, our share of renewable power generation capacity was 4.2 GW in operation and 1.9 GW in development. Our renewable power generation capacities are listed in the following tables: Renewable power generation capacity in operation and in development as of December 31, 2025 – by region In operation [A] In development [B] Location 100% capacity (MW) Shell interest (MW) 100% capacity (MW) Shell interest (MW) Asia 2,643 2,575 1,311 1,227 Europe 1,881 1,141 917 613 Americas 676 256 285 57 Australia 120 120 — — Other 126 126 8 8 Total 5,447 4,219 2,521 1,905 Renewable power generation capacity in operation and in development as of December 31, 2025 2025 2024 2023 Renewable power generation capacity (Shell interest - gigawatts): In operation [A] 4.2 3.4 2.5 In development [B] 1.9 4.0 4.1 [A] Renewable generation capacity post commercial operation date. [B] Renewable generation capacity under construction and/or committed for sale under long-term offtake agreements PPA. Renewable power generation capacity in development decreased compared with 2024 due to transfers to capacity in operation, withdrawal from the Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind project, and other dilution in ownership interests and divestments. Hydrogen Hydrogen can help reduce emissions for our customers in sectors that are hard to decarbonise, such as heavy industry and heavy-duty road transport. We can also use it to help decarbonise our own assets. Shell is part of joint ventures and alliances that have built electrolysers and hydrogen filling stations. We have also participated in feasibility studies that aim to show the viability of a global import and export market for hydrogen. When it comes to developing hydrogen investment opportunities, we aim to do so where we see adjacencies with our integrated business value chain and where we believe there are pathways to attractive returns. Since 2021, we have operated an electrolyser (REFHYNE I, Shell interest 100%) in Germany, which produces hydrogen using electricity from renewable sources. In 2022, we took an FID to build Holland Hydrogen I in the Netherlands. Construction is progressing well, and we expect to start commissioning in late 2026, with production ramp-up in 2027. In July 2024, we took the final investment decision to build REFHYNE II, a 100 MW electrolyser to produce renewable hydrogen in Germany. We plan to use this hydrogen to partially decarbonise the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland. In November 2025, we signed two separate power purchase agreements (PPAs) in Germany with Nordsee One GmbH and Solarkraftwerk Halenbeck-Rohlsdorf I/II GmbH to secure a significant proportion of the renewable electricity needed to power the REFHYNE II facility. The electrolyser is scheduled to begin operating in 2027. Carbon capture and storage Shell has operational CCS projects in Canada, Australia and Norway. Together with partners, we are developing CCS projects in Europe and Canada and we continue to explore other CCS opportunities around the world. We report existing CCS operations that help decarbonise our own assets in the segment where the relevant asset sits. We also offer carbon capture, transport and storage to our customers as we seek to help them decarbonise, including through our involvement in the Northern Lights project, which is the world's first commercial project to deliver cross-border CO 2 transport and storage as a service. See "Northern Lights CCS venture achieves key milestones" on page 85. Nature and environmental solutions Through the Nature Based Solutions (NBS) business and the Environmental Products Trading Business (EPTB), we provide carbon credits to our customers. NBS invests in projects that conserve, enhance and restore ecosystems – such as forests, grasslands and wetlands – to prevent GHG emissions or reduce atmospheric CO 2 levels. Through EPTB, we develop, source, offtake, trade and supply environmental products across compliance and voluntary markets. This includes working with our other businesses such as Integrated Gas or Marketing to provide integrated energy solutions to customers. Shell Ventures Through Shell Ventures we invest in or work with start-ups and other early-stage businesses to help them scale and grow. We invest in companies that work on solutions to reduce emissions, electrify energy systems, gain data-based insights and provide innovative consumer solutions. We also invest in technologies and companies that create value for our core businesses by improving efficiency, enhancing operational safety and delivering greater value to our customers. Investments Within R&ES, we maintain an integrated business model with trading and optimisation to help us manage our value delivery. Our investments in low-carbon solutions are subject to financial modelling and stress-testing, due diligence and risk assessments to help us allocate our capital to the most attractive low-carbon projects and opportunities. 84 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Renewables and Energy Solutions continued Northern Lights CCS venture achieves key milestones Our Northern Lights joint venture in Norway – the world's first carbon capture and storage (CCS) project to offer commercial carbon transport and storage as a service – achieved several milestones in 2025. The first deliveries of CO 2 arrived on ships that Shell helped develop, and Northern Lights made the first injection of CO 2 under the seabed. The final investment decision on the next phase of the project was also taken. As part of our strategy to deliver more value with less emissions, we are investing in CCS projects to help decarbonise our own operations and those of our customers. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency recognise that CCS is essential for achieving net-zero emissions, particularly for carbon-intensive industries like cement and steel. For Shell, projects like Northern Lights are central to unlocking CCS potential and supporting our customers in hard-to-abate sectors. First arrival and injection of CO 2 In August 2025, the Northern Lights joint venture (Shell interest 33.3%) with Equinor and TotalEnergies completed the world's first cross-border commercial carbon transport and storage service, injecting CO 2 collected from a cement factory 450 kilometres away into an aquifer beneath the North Sea. Northern Lights currently has the capacity to store around 1.5 million tonnes of CO 2 per year, receiving liquefied CO 2 from customers across Europe. To transport the CO 2 to Norway, Shell engineers designed two of the largest liquefied carbon carriers in the world -- the 130-metre-long Northern Pathfinder and Northern Pioneer. Each vessel can transport 7,500 cubic metres of CO 2 per voyage, equivalent to three Olympic-sized swimming pools. Powered mainly by LNG, the ships also feature wind-assisted rotor sails and air lubrication systems, reducing carbon intensity by about 34% compared with conventional ships. 1. Northern Pioneer arriving at the terminal in Øygarden. Credit: NLJV – Ruben Soltvedt. 2 . The Northern Lights receiving terminal in Norway. Phase 2 decision made With its flexible, ship-based model, Northern Lights is uniquely positioned to serve a growing network of customers across Europe. Captured CO 2 will be shipped to Øygarden, then piped 100 km offshore for permanent storage 2,600 metres under the North Sea. The venture has agreements with Yara and Ørsted to transport and store CO 2 from facilities in the Netherlands and Denmark. In March 2025, the final investment decision for Phase 2 was announced. Under expansion plans expected to be completed in 2028, Northern Lights will scale up transport and storage capacity from 1.5 million tonnes to at least 5 million tonnes annually -- equivalent to the emissions of more than 1 million cars. Swedish energy provider Stockholm Exergi has already signed up for the transportation and storage of up to 900,000 tonnes of CO 2 annually from 2028. Northern Lights demonstrates how Shell is leveraging its technological capabilities to build scalable businesses across lower-carbon platforms, including low-carbon fuels, hydrogen, carbon capture and storage, and power from gas-fired and renewable energy [A]. [A] Gas is a lower-carbon alternative to coal in power generation. 85 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value Corporate The Corporate segment covers the non-operating activities supporting Shell. It comprises Shell's holdings and treasury organisation, headquarters and central functions, self-insurance activities and centrally managed longer-term innovation portfolio. All finance expense, income and related taxes for Shell, which is headquartered in London, are included in the Corporate results for the period rather than the business results for the period. Most headquarter and central function costs are recovered from the business segments. Costs that are not recovered or relate to centrally managed activities are retained in Corporate. The Holdings and Treasury organisation manages many of our corporate entities. It is the point of contact between Shell and external capital markets. For example, it raises debt instruments and conducts foreign exchange transactions. Treasury centres in London and Singapore support these activities. Shell's longer-term innovation portfolio is managed centrally and is reported as part of the Corporate segment. Other innovation portfolio activities are reported in the business segments. See "Innovation and technology" on page 87. 2025 earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes Identified items, which in 2025 amounted to a net loss of $104 million. The Adjusted Earnings loss position decreased by $98 million compared with 2024. This reflected favourable tax movements ($825 million), partly offset by unfavourable net interest movements ($440 million) and currency exchange rate effects ($191 million). Photo: CEO quarterly all-staff engagement, Krakow, November 2025. [A] All earnings amounts are shown post-tax unless otherwise stated. Key metrics [B] $ million, except where indicated 2025 2024 2023 Income/(loss) for the period (1,974) (2,992) (2,944) Identified items [B] (104) (1,024) (69) Adjusted Earnings* [B] [C] (1,870) (1,968) (2,875) Adjusted EBITDA* [C] (1,193) (675) (1,164) Cash flow from operating activities* (3,123) (1,882) (832) [B] See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 243-251. [C] Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted EBITDA are presented on a current cost of supplies basis. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. Prior year earnings [A] Income/(loss) for the period was driven by the same factors as Adjusted Earnings and includes Identified items, which in 2024 amounted to a net loss of $1,024 million. The Adjusted Earnings loss position decreased by $907 million compared with 2023. This reflected favourable tax movements ($396 million), net interest movements ($280 million) and currency exchange rate effects ($192 million). Identified items in 2024 included reclassifications, from equity to profit and loss, of cumulative currency translation differences principally related to funding structure changes, resulting in unfavourable movements of $1,122 million. Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from operating activities for the full year 2025 was primarily driven by working capital outflows of $1,505 million, which included a reduction in joint-venture deposits, as well as Adjusted EBITDA and tax payments of $425 million. Self-insurance Shell, like other major oil and gas companies, self-insures most of its exposures to hazard risks. Our Group insurance companies are wholly owned subsidiaries. They provide insurance coverage to our subsidiaries and entities in which we have an interest, including those that are not controlled by Shell. We continually assess the safety performance of our operations and make risk mitigation recommendations, where relevant, to keep the risk of an accident as low as possible. As regulated and licensed companies, our Group insurance companies are adequately capitalised. They may transfer risks to third-party insurers where economical, effective and relevant. See page 27 of "Risk factors". 86 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value Innovation and technology Innovation Shell has a long history in technology and innovation. Our global network of research and development (R&D) centres seeks to deliver innovative, cost-competitive solutions that meet global energy demands while reducing emissions. We collaborate closely with our customers, suppliers and partners, as well as with many universities and research institutes. We also work with some of the world's leading technology companies to deploy digital solutions at scale across our businesses. Technology helps to improve our efficiency, safety and competitiveness. By applying our technical and digital capabilities, we can also contribute to building the low-carbon energy system of the future. In 2025, we invested $1,170 million in R&D. We combine our expertise in R&D with digital solutions, often powered by AI, to help accelerate innovation and effectively scale up. Shell's Technology organisation and our businesses work together to determine the content, scope and budget for developing new technology that supports our activities. This includes partnering with start-ups and small- to medium-sized enterprises that are in the early stages of developing new technologies through our Shell Ventures and Shell GameChanger programmes. New technology is developed using a maturation process, to systematically mitigate technical and commercial risks, while staying aligned with Shell's strategic ambitions and deployment commitments. See page 28 of "Risk factors". Intellectual property At Shell, we have a wide-ranging intellectual property (IP) portfolio which includes patents, trademarks, know-how, trade secrets and copyrights. The distinctive Shell Pecten, a trademark in use since the early 20th century, and trademarks where the word Shell appears, help raise the profile of our Shell brand globally. We protect and defend our IP and we respect the valid IP rights of others. At December 31, 2025, we held 8,087 patents. This includes granted patents and pending patent applications. Shell holds trademarks globally, even in countries where we no longer operate. For instance, in 2025, we renewed the trademark registration for "Midel" in Russia, through the renewal of the international trademark registration with the World Intellectual Property Organization, by paying the official fee of $2,604 for all countries covered, of which $120 was for Russia. Information technology (IT) and cyber security Digitalisation is a key success factor in delivering Shell's strategy. We are transforming our IT systems to support our evolving portfolio of businesses. We invest in new technologies, such as AI and quantum computing, enhancing our IT capabilities to improve the experience of our customers and make Shell a more efficient organisation. Digital technologies are increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of our processes by collecting quality data, turning this data into insights and insights into actions that improve the performance of our assets. The growing dependence on IT and rising data volumes introduce risks. A breach in IT systems or data loss could significantly impact Shell and its supply chain, leading to productivity disruptions, loss of confidential information, regulatory penalties and potential reputational harm. Additionally, sanctions, including orders to delete data and regulatory fines, might be imposed on Shell if authorities find Shell failed to meet its obligations in relation to cyber security or personal data protection. In 2025, we continued to implement a comprehensive cyber security programme as part of our cyber defence strategy. This was done in adherence to Information and Digital Technology (IDT) requirements based on the Shell Performance Framework (SPF). Our Information and Digital Technology Standard sets out a structured approach to identify, assess and mitigate IT and cyber security risks. Following the approval of the IDT requirements, we refreshed our Information Risk Management capabilities and streamlined the organisational structure to enhance the formal Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) role, with support from the Executive Committee. This included integrating the cyber defence teams and other decentralised cyber security functions into the central Cyber and Information Security Office organisation. These changes came into effect on March 1, 2025. Our global cyber and information security teams are staffed with cyber security professionals that monitor, assure and help defend our global IT and data landscape. As our employees and contractors play a role in protecting our IT systems, we provide them with targeted training on data protection and regulatory compliance, and regularly run cyber security awareness campaigns, including simulations on how to respond to cyberattacks. We evaluate emerging digital technologies to understand the risks, their impact and necessary remediation of this impact. Additionally, Shell works to monitor and respond in real time to cyber security incidents as they happen. Cyber and information security risk management Our cyber security capabilities are embedded into our IT systems, and our IT and data are protected by various detective and protective technologies and controls. A structured approach to identify, assess and mitigate the IT and cyber security risks is built into our support processes and is benchmarked to external best practices. We continuously track cyberattacks, threat intelligence, cyber legislations and vulnerabilities relevant to our IT landscape, and have a structured incident management and escalation process in place. 87 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | More value | Innovation and Technology continued The security of IT services, where operated by external IT companies, is managed through a risk-based approach, including information and cyber security assessments, contractual clauses and additionally through supplier assurance reports issued by independent third parties for critical IT services. Shell collaborates periodically with service providers and supplements these reports with internal benchmarking to assess our cyber security risk management practices against cyber security best practices and peer organisations. We enhance our cyber security capabilities and adopt a risk-based strategy for our cyber risk investment decisions by leveraging insights from assessments, adapting to changes in external risks, and incorporating the results of internal audits and control testing. Shell employees and contract staff are required to complete mandatory training courses and participate in regular cyber threat awareness campaigns. The Think Secure Scorecard was introduced in 2024 across the organisation. It provides data insights into the cyber behaviour of Shell staff on an individual level, encouraging continuous learning about cyber threats and advocating personal accountability. Shell has robust governance processes to monitor key cyber and information security risks, provide risk assurance and encourage a corporate culture that prioritises security. Our cyber security strategy is regularly reviewed and updated, as required, by our CISO and Shell's Information and Digital Technology leadership team , with oversight from the EC, the Audit and Risk Committee, and the Board . These reviews involve: ￮ consideration of changes to the external environment; ￮ strategic, operational and cultural risks; ￮ response to cyber security risks and implementation of further remedial actions as appropriate; and ￮ updates on the performance and benchmarking of the Group's cyber defences. The Cyber and Information Security Office function performs periodic reviews and targeted deep dives that help ensure cyber and information security risk posture remains aligned with our enterprise risk management and regulatory expectations. Shell has established processes to report cyber security and data privacy incidents to relevant authorities as required by applicable regulatory requirements. In 2025, there were no cyber or data privacy incidents that had a material impact on Shell's business strategy, operations or financial condition. The Cyber and Information Security Office leadership team involved in monitoring and managing our cyber security and information risk management processes has significant relevant experience. Effective April 1, 2025, with the departure of Shell's previous CISO, a new CISO was appointed. The CISO leads the cyber and information security function and is also responsible for global end-user and enterprise IT strategy, delivery and operations. Together with his leadership team, he helps ensure secure, scalable and resilient digital infrastructure to support Shell's businesses and transformation functions . With more than 26 years of experience in global IT leadership, including leadership roles at IBM, Cables & Wireless and Serco, he brings deep expertise in strategic change, innovation and operational excellence. At Shell, he has held senior IT positions across all major businesses and functions. Furthermore, he is active in cyber security industry trade groups. The CISO is supported by a leadership with extensive and significant cumulative experience spanning decades, possessing multiple relevant certifications including but not limited to Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP), Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA), Certified in Risk and Information System Control (CRISC) and Certified in the Governance of Enterprise IT (CGEIT). The leadership team also actively participates in various industry forums. Transforming gas production in Norway At Ormen Lange, the Phase 3 sub-sea compression project was completed and delivered first gas in June 2025. The project represents the world's deepest sub-sea compression system and is expected to increase the field recovery rate from 75% to 85%, unlocking an additional 30–50 billion cubic metres of gas to supply Europe's energy needs. The new compression system is connected to the Norwegian grid, which is largely supplied by renewable power, and operates remotely without an offshore platform, reducing human risk and the impact on the surrounding environment. Intel certifies Shell cooling fluids for data centres In 2025, Shell Lubricants' immersion cooling fluids became the first to earn Intel Data Center Certification for Immersion Cooling, with confirmed compatibility with 4th and 5th Gen Intel Xeon processors. The certification follows two years of rigorous testing, which demonstrated that processors remain as reliable in Shell's immersion cooling fluids as in traditional air-cooled systems. Pearl GTL in Qatar recognised for innovation Pearl GTL in Qatar, the world's largest gas-to-liquids plant, has embraced smart technologies and artificial intelligence (AI) to enhance safety, efficiency and sustainability. This innovation was recognised by the World Economic Forum's Global Lighthouse Network in September 2025. The plant employs machine-vision systems to detect hazards in real time and alert supervisors, helping prevent safety incidents. AI also monitors equipment health, reducing manual inspections and enabling early intervention. Photo: Ormen Lange, Norway, 2025. 88 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year Less emissions We are committed to playing our part in helping to decarbonise the global energy system. We have a target to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. 90 Shell and the energy transition 104 Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition 116 Other regulatory disclosures In 2025, we continued to make progress against our climate-related targets and ambition. At the end of 2025, we had reduced our Scope 1 and 2 operational emissions by 36%, and the net carbon intensity (NCI) of our energy products by 9% from our 2016 baseline. We had also achieved our target of eliminating routine flaring from our upstream operations by 2025 and continued to maintain methane emissions intensity for our operated oil and gas assets below 0.2%. Additionally, we have delivered an 18% reduction to date as part of our ambition to reduce customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) by 15-20% by 2030 compared with 2021. 89 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions Shell and the energy transition The world needs a balanced energy transition, one that maintains secure energy supplies, while accelerating the transition to affordable low-carbon solutions. We believe our strategy supports a balanced transition by providing the oil and gas people need today, while helping to build the energy system of the future. We recognise that the scale of the energy transition requires fundamental change in both supply and demand. It will take supportive government policies, advances in technology and investments by companies across all parts of the economy to achieve this. We advocate policies, legislation and regulations in areas where we can best support the decarbonisation of our customers, reduce our own emissions and help accelerate the energy transition. There remains significant uncertainty around the shape of the future energy system. As a result, we are developing a multi-energy portfolio that has the flexibility to respond to uncertainty and that we believe will allow us to remain a successful business with a target to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. It will take significant investment to maintain the stable and secure supplies of energy that the world needs. Shell's future investments are guided by market signals and strategic signposts, ensuring decisions align with our profitability and resilience objectives under both cost and carbon considerations. Our strategy is to deliver more value with less emissions by: ￮ Growing our integrated gas and LNG business; ￮ Keeping liquids production stable; and ￮ Transforming Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions. Gas, including LNG, is a stabilising force in energy systems because it is versatile, flexible and reliable. Gas is versatile because it can be used in power generation, industry, heating and transport. It is also flexible and reliable because it is simple to deploy and can be shipped, as LNG, to where it is needed to meet changing demand. Gas is a lower-carbon alternative to coal in power generation and industry, and to oil in transport [A]. Gas can balance renewable energy to provide stability for national grids. We believe that supplying LNG will be the biggest contribution we will make through the next decade of the energy transition as we help to build the energy system of the future. [A] According to the International Energy Agency, globally, on average, the life-cycle GHG emissions intensity of electricity produced from LNG is around 40% lower than for electricity produced from coal. "Assessing Emissions from LNG Supply and Abatement Options" report from the IEA, June 19, 2025. The role of oil and gas will be critical to the energy system for decades to come. We are working to cut the emissions from our oil and gas production and processing, prioritising cost- and carbon-competitive oil and gas. We aim to sustain liquids production and will focus on basins where we have a competitive advantage. We are focused on enhancing value from our Downstream, Renewables and Energy solutions businesses. We are repositioning Chemicals, power and low-carbon options (including carbon capture and storage (CCS), hydrogen and low-carbon fuels) to unlock greater value and support our climate-related targets and ambition. We aim to lead in the energy transition where we have competitive strengths, see strong customer demand and identify clear regulatory support from governments. Energy Transition Strategy 2024 In March 2024, we published our Energy Transition Strategy 2024 (ETS24), which shareholders approved at the AGM. We updated our plans, covering all our businesses, to reduce emissions from our operations and help our customers to decarbonise, focusing on: ￮ Growing our world-leading LNG business with lower carbon intensity operations by using CCS and renewable power, and reducing methane emissions; ￮ Cutting emissions from oil and gas production in our Upstream business, implementing carbon management plans and working to reduce carbon emissions from our assets, by looking at ways to electrify our offshore oil facilities, including using wind and solar power to reduce operational emissions; and ￮ Offering low-carbon solutions from our Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions businesses such as biofuels and electric vehicle charging, developing our integrated power positions and working to unlock the potential of CCS to reduce emissions where there are few low-carbon alternatives. We set targets to reduce the carbon intensity of the energy products we sell, measured by using our net carbon intensity (NCI) metric. We believe these targets are aligned with a 1.5°C pathway derived from scenarios developed for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC's) Sixth Assessment Report (AR6). For more information see "Setting targets for NCI" on page 113. The progress we have made towards our climate-related targets and ambition is set out on page 104. See "Our strategy" on pages 20-22. [A] This target was subject to the completion of the sale of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC). We ceased routine flaring of associated gas in January 2025, achieving our target independent of the sale of SPDC to Renaissance. As detailed elsewhere in this report, on March 13, 2025, Shell completed the sale of SPDC to Renaissance. [B] Methane intensity is measured and calculated separately for oil and gas assets with marketed gas (gas, LNG and GTL available for sale) and assets without marketed gas (oil and gas assets where gas is reinjected). 90 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued [A] We include services in the "Industry" sector. Services are included under the "Buildings" sector in the IEA end use definition. [B] Blue hydrogen is generated from hydrocarbon feedstocks with CO 2 capture and storage. Green hydrogen production uses renewable electricity to electrolyse water into H 2 and O 2 . 91 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued Climate-related risks and opportunities identified by Shell over the short, medium and long term We are continually enhancing our approach to assessing and managing the risks and opportunities resulting from climate change. This includes considering different time horizons and their relevance to risk identification and business planning. We actively monitor societal developments, such as regulation-driven carbon pricing mechanisms and customer-driven preferences for products. We incorporate these developments, where relevant, into potential scenarios which provide insights into how the energy transition may unfold in the medium and long term. These insights and those from various external scenarios (such as those prepared for the IPCC's AR6) help guide how we set our strategy, capital allocation and climate-related targets and ambition. The process for identifying and assessing climate-related risks is set out in "Risk management" on page 31. The impact and likelihood assessment described on page 31 helps us to prioritise climate-related risks and determine their relative materiality, based on a comprehensive picture of significant risks to any relevant business objectives. We consider climate-related risks from a strategic, operational, conduct and culture perspective to help us maintain a comprehensive view of the different types of climate risks we face and the different time horizons in which they may affect us. Monitoring and reviewing risks is a key risk management process. The Executive Committee, the Board and Board committees review climate-related risks and their impact on the Group, as appropriate. This allows management to take a holistic view and optimise risk mitigation responses, to ensure that climate-related risk responses are properly integrated into the relevant activities. Shell has identified climate change and the energy transition as a material risk. The risk could potentially result in changes to the demand for our products, supply chains and markets; further changes to the regulatory environment in which we operate; and increased litigation (see Note 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements "Legal proceedings and other contingencies" on page 287). The risk is composed of a combination of complex and interrelated elements that affect Shell's value chain and our asset, product and business portfolio. The risk landscape is evolving rapidly. To achieve our climate-related targets and ambition, active holistic management of all climate-related risk components is important. The composite risk is broken down into the following sub-components: ￮ commercial risk; ￮ societal risk (including litigation risk); ￮ regulatory risk; and ￮ physical risk. We are working to mitigate our identified climate-related risks and deliver more value with less emissions by focusing on performance, discipline and simplification. We believe we are positioning ourselves to achieve our financial targets and climate-related targets and ambition by: ￮ reducing the GHG emissions from our operations (Scope 1 and 2) by improving our energy efficiency, deploying renewable electricity and reducing methane emissions in our assets and projects; ￮ growing our LNG business while decarbonising our portfolio by prioritising lower carbon intensity assets and investing in innovative decarbonisation pathways, including abatement projects to reduce CO 2 and methane emissions; ￮ managing our Integrated Gas and Upstream portfolio to support a balanced energy transition by cutting emissions from oil and gas production; and ￮ transforming our Downstream and Renewables and Energy Solutions business, supported by our global trading and supply capabilities, to offer low-carbon energy solutions. We adapt our assets and activities as necessary to enhance our resilience to physical risks, whether or not related to climate change. Many of these adaptations are based on our Safety, Environment and Asset Management (SEAM) Standards and practices. See page 95 for more details of physical risks. Our approach to climate change emphasises the need to work collaboratively. We therefore work closely with customers, other companies and sectors to help decarbonise the global energy system. We engage with governments on their climate policies to advocate policies that help establish regulatory frameworks to enable Shell to invest profitably in products and services that will help deliver a balanced energy transition. We are a founding member of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), a group of 12 national and international energy companies supporting these goals through collective action. We are signed up to the Oil & Gas Decarbonization Charter (OGDC), in which companies have pledged to achieve near-zero methane emissions intensity by 2030, zero routine flaring by no later than 2030 and commit to halving Scope 1 and 2 emissions by or before 2050. In April 2024, we became the first official partner to the World Bank Global Flaring and Methane Reduction Fund Partnership, which we committed to at the 28th Conference of the Parties (COP28) in 2023. We are a founding signatory of the Oil and Gas Methane Partnership (OGMP) 2.0 reporting framework. Shell achieved the OGMP 2.0 Gold Standard in methane emissions reporting in 2023 and 2024. As a leading global energy business, Shell seeks to identify opportunities in the energy transition. These risks and opportunities are described below. Climate-related risks are also summarised in the "Risk factors and risk management" section on pages 25-26. Time horizons: Short, medium and long Due to the inherent uncertainty and pervasive risks across our strategy and business model, we monitor climate-related risks and opportunities across multiple time horizons. ￮ Short term (up to three years): we develop a detailed Operating Plan to manage performance and expectations on a three-year cycle. The Operating Plan is updated every year and incorporates decarbonisation measures required to meet our short-term targets. ￮ Medium term (generally three to 10 years): we develop an outlook with our continued focus on the customer, the investments and portfolio shifts we believe are required in the medium term to shape Shell's portfolio. ￮ Long term (generally beyond 10 years): the level of uncertainty increases over longer time horizons. Our portfolio and product mix are expected to evolve over time with changing customer demand. 92 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued Transition risks Description CR1 Climate-related commercial risks ￮ The transition to a low-carbon economy may lead to lower sales volumes and/or margins due to a general reduction or elimination of demand for oil and gas products, possibly resulting in underutilised or stranded oil and gas assets, and a failure to secure new opportunities. ￮ Changing preferences of investors and financial institutions could reduce access to and increase the cost of capital. Relevant time horizon medium and long Potential material impacts Lower demand and margins for oil and gas products ￮ Changing customer sentiment in some markets, favouring the use of renewable and sustainable energy products, may reduce demand for our oil and gas products. An excess of fossil fuel supply over demand could result in reduced fossil fuel prices. This could result in lower earnings in the future, cancelled projects and potential impairment of certain assets. Changing preferences of investors and financial institutions ￮ Certain investors have decided to divest their investments in fossil fuel companies. If this were to increase significantly, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our securities and our ability to access capital markets. Some investors and financial institutions have been aligning their portfolios to low-carbon opportunities, driven by both regulatory and broader stakeholder pressures. ￮ A failure to decarbonise our business portfolios in line with investor and lender expectations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access financing for certain types of projects. This could also adversely affect our partners' ability to finance their portion of costs, either through equity or debt. ￮ Sensitivity analysis of a 1% shift in Shell's weighted average cost of capital (WACC) on asset carrying values is presented in the section "Carbon pricing and discount rate sensitivities" on page 101. Remaining in step with the pace and extent of the energy transition ￮ The energy transition provides us with significant opportunities, as described in "Climate-related opportunities" (CO1) below. If we fail to stay in step with customers' and other stakeholders' demand for low-carbon products, this could adversely affect our reputation and future earnings. If we move much faster than society, we risk investing in technologies, markets or low-carbon products for which there may be insufficient demand. If we are slower than society, or if low-carbon technology advances faster than we expect, customers may prefer a different supplier. This would reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our reputation and materially affect our financial results. ￮ Low-carbon technology and innovation are essential to our efforts to help meet the world's energy demands competitively. If we are unable to develop the right technology and products in a timely and cost-effective manner, there could be an adverse effect on our future earnings. The operating margins for our low-carbon products and services [A] have been, and could continue to be, lower than the margins we have experienced historically in our oil and gas operations. Description CR2 Climate-related societal risks (including litigation) ￮ Societal expectations around energy security and affordability, and mitigating climate change, continue to shift, creating uncertainty, with a potential impact on Shell's licence to operate, reputation, brand and competitive position. This is likely to include litigation. Relevant time horizon short, medium and long Potential material impacts Decline in reputation, brand and licence to operate ￮ Societal expectations around energy security, affordability and mitigating climate change continue to shift with uncertain implications for businesses with regard to mix and quality of products, safety and minimising damage to the environment. The role of the oil and gas sector in the context of climate change and the energy transition has been, and continues to be, an area of focus and public debate. This has negatively affected, and in the future could negatively affect, our licence to operate, our brand, reputation and competitive position; and could reduce consumer demand for our products, harm our ability to secure new resources and contracts, and restrict our ability to access capital markets or attract employees. Deteriorating relationships with key stakeholders ￮ Failure to decarbonise Shell's value chain in line with societal, governmental and investor expectations is a material risk to Shell's reputation as a responsible energy company. The impact of this risk includes shareholder divestment, greater regulatory scrutiny and potential asset closure resulting from public interest groups' protests. Litigation ￮ There is an increasing risk to oil and gas companies from private (including non-governmental organisations) and governmental lawsuits. If successful, these claims may have wide-ranging consequences, including forcing entities to hand over strategic autonomy in part to regulators, divesting from hydrocarbon technologies, denying entities regulatory approvals and/or requiring payment of fines or penalties or large compensation packages to plaintiffs. ￮ In some countries, governments, regulators, organisations and individuals have filed lawsuits of a wide variety, including seeking to hold oil and gas companies liable for costs associated with climate change, or seeking court-ordered reductions in emissions, challenging the regulatory approvals and operating licences, or challenging energy transition strategies and plans. While we believe these lawsuits to be without merit, losing could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. ￮ In the Netherlands, a group of environmental NGOs and individual claimants (referred to herein as "Milieudefensie") filed an appeal on February 11, 2025 with the Dutch Supreme Court against the Court of Appeal judgment of November 12, 2024, which overturned a lower court finding that Shell had an obligation to reduce certain aggregate annual volumes of CO 2 emissions by 2030. ￮ We have also been subjected to climate activism which has caused disruptions to our operations, and such disruptions could happen again in the future. [A] Electric vehicle charging services, renewable power generation, nature-based solutions, green hydrogen, CCS. We define low-carbon energy products as those that have an average carbon intensity that is lower than that of conventional hydrocarbon products, assessed on a life-cycle basis. 93 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued Transition risks continued Description CR3 Climate-related regulatory risks ￮ The transition to a low-carbon economy continues to increase compliance costs for our assets and products, and may restrict the use of hydrocarbons. The lack of net-zero-aligned global and national policies and frameworks, and a fluid regulatory environment, increase the uncertainty around this risk . Relevant time horizon short, medium and long Potential material impacts Increased compliance costs ￮ Some governments have introduced carbon pricing mechanisms, which we believe can be an effective way to reduce GHG emissions across the economy at the lowest overall cost to society. ￮ Shell's cost of compliance with the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) and related schemes was around $398 million in 2025, as recognised in Shell's Consolidated Statement of Income for 2025. A further $4,733 million of costs in respect of emissions schemes and related environmental programmes were incurred in respect of biofuels ($4,203 million) and renewable power ($530 million) programmes (see Note 5 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 240-241). ￮ Shell's annual carbon cost exposure (including ETS and related schemes) is expected to rise as carbon pricing expands globally and average prices increase, with the forecast annual cost exposure in 2026 estimated to be around $1 billion and around $4 billion in 2035. This estimate is based on a forecast of Shell's equity share of emissions from operated and non-operated assets, and real-term carbon cost estimates using the mid-price scenario (see Note 4 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 228-239 for more information) [A]. This exposure also takes into account the estimated impact of available CO 2 free allowances as relevant to assets based on their location [B]. Restrictions on use of hydrocarbons ￮ Governments may introduce further restrictions on hydrocarbon exploration and production and impose stricter standards for decommissioning, which could affect timing and costs. Failure to replace proved reserves could result in an accelerated decrease of future production, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. Lack of net-zero-aligned global and national policies and frameworks ￮ Divergence in regulatory direction has created, and continues to create, uncertainty and complexity for multinational companies operating globally. The renewed focus on the competitive agenda in the EU aims to simplify current and incoming climate regulations and disclosure requirements, with the USA moving towards deregulation at the federal level, even as some states adopt stricter rules. ￮ The lack of net-zero-aligned global and national policies and frameworks increases the uncertainty around how carbon pricing and other regulatory mechanisms will be implemented in the future. This makes it harder to determine appropriate assumptions for financial planning and investment decisions, which could impair our ability to assess the robustness of our plans and opportunities. Rapid changes in government climate and energy-transition-related policies and regulations could also lead to impairments of our existing oil and gas assets. ￮ The lack of consistent government policy needed to provide a conducive regulatory environment for low-carbon products and solutions could make it more challenging to take investment decisions on projects that we and society need to reach our respective decarbonisation goals as policy is critical in creating sustained demand for new low-carbon solutions in many sectors. Similarly, climate policy approaches that hamper or constrain market efficiency and competition increase costs and make projects less attractive, challenging our ability to deliver our strategy. [A] Carbon cost estimates that include inflation; usually a yearly 2% inflation is applied. [B] Free allowances are amounts of CO 2 an asset is allowed to emit without paying the emissions trading scheme price/tax. 94 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued Physical risks Description CR4 Climate-related physical risks ￮ The potential physical effects of changing climatic conditions could adversely affect our assets, operations, supply chains, employees and markets. Relevant time horizon short, medium and long Potential material impacts Types of physical risk The impact of physical risks comes from both acute and chronic climate hazards. Acute hazards, such as flooding and droughts, wildfires and more severe tropical storms, and chronic hazards, such as rising temperatures and rising sea levels, could potentially impact some of our facilities, operations and supply chains. The frequency of these hazards and impacts is expected to increase in certain locations. Extreme weather events, whether or not related to climate change, could have a negative impact on our earnings, cash flows and financial condition. Mitigation of physical risks, whether or not related to climate change, is considered and embedded in the design and construction of our projects, and/or operation of our assets, to help minimise the risk of adverse incidents to our employees and contractors, the communities where we operate and our equipment. Shell's assessment ￮ In 2023, we carried out a detailed review to assess the impact of a range of changing climatic conditions, including projected changes in temperature, precipitation, wind and sea levels, across segments and geographies for our significant assets. We used IPCC climate modelling data covering three exploratory climate scenarios (RCP2.6, RCP4.5 and RCP8.5 [A]) across the time horizons 2025, 2030 and 2050. These scenarios were selected to ensure a broad range of risks and uncertainties were assessed. There have been no changes to the climate modelling data that would require a full update of the 2023 assessment. An annual process has been established to review the 2023 work, reconfirm the significant assets, verify that there are no changes to the risk profile of our significant assets and account for portfolio changes. ￮ In the short to medium term, the risks identified were found to be related to factors that Shell is already aware of (whether or not related to climate change) and that the assets are actively managing to mitigate, e.g. hurricane impacts on the US Gulf Coast, rising air temperatures in the Middle East and water scarcity in Europe and Asia. As an example, in recent years the Rhine river in Europe has seen historic lows during the summer months, leading to challenges in the use of barges for transportation of our products. Dredging of harbours and investment in shallower-draft barges have helped to mitigate the risk. ￮ In the long term, the results of the exercise indicated that, while we have evaluated against current climate modelling projections and our current asset portfolio, by 2050 the frequency and severity of the climate hazards may differ from current projections. The level of predictability is such that the need for investment in climate adaptation measures at the assets is not immediate and the results mean the assets are in a position to monitor their condition and determine whether there is any need for adaptation action, e.g. the impact of potential water scarcity on various assets. ￮ Our testing to assess the potential impact of climate-related changes on our significant assets covers over 70% of the carrying value of our physical assets as at December 31, 2024. Over 12% (based on the carrying value) of physical assets tested are considered to be exposed to climate-related physical risks in the short to medium term, which the assets are already actively managing to mitigate. In addition, we have reviewed significant acquisitions made and projects reaching FID since 2023, none of which were found to have significant climate-related physical risks in the short to medium term. ￮ Our business plan reflects the impact of mitigating actions in the short to medium term for the assets assessed. We will continue to monitor and assess the future exposure of our assets in the longer term to changing climatic conditions to establish the need for any further adaptation actions and related metrics. ￮ The impact of physical climate change on our operations is unlikely to be limited to the boundaries of our assets. For example, the downstream transportation and distribution of our products from our own operations could potentially be exposed to climate-related hazards that ultimately impact our operations. The overall impact, including how supply chains, resource availability and markets may be affected, also needs to be considered for a holistic assessment of this risk. Our assets manage this risk as part of broad risk and threat management processes as required by our SEAM Standards, which are part of the wider Shell Performance Framework. [A] Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) refers to the GHG concentration (not emissions) trajectory adopted by the IPCC. The pathways describe different climate change scenarios, all of which are considered possible depending on the amount of GHG emitted in the years to come. 95 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued Opportunities Description CO1 Climate-related opportunities ￮ The transition to a low-carbon economy also brings significant opportunities for us to benefit from changing customer demands, given our position as a leading global energy provider. Relevant time horizon short, medium and long Potential material impacts As the global energy mix changes, our current infrastructure, know-how and global footprint put us in an ideal position to service the changing energy demands of the market. Our global customer reach, our use of technology and innovation to develop the business models and fuels of the future and the strength of our trading capabilities, coupled with our own production, will help us deliver affordable and low-carbon energy products and solutions for our customers. Our R&D activities are an important contributor to achieving our climate-related targets and ambition. We aim to be the investment case and partner of choice through the energy transition. As we work to deliver more value with less emissions we are focusing on: LNG ￮ Demand for LNG is expected to grow. Today, we are the world's leading publicly listed supplier of LNG, with around 44 million tonnes of equity capacity. Our Integrated Gas portfolio is the largest amongst peers, servicing nearly a fifth of global LNG demand. We believe that supplying LNG will be the biggest contribution we will make through the next decade of the energy transition as we help to build the energy system of the future. In the future, the production of gas could be decarbonised through carbon capture storage, biogas and synthetic gas. Gas, including LNG, is a stabilising force in energy systems because it is versatile, flexible and reliable. Gas is versatile because it can be used in power generation, industry, heating and transport. It is also flexible and reliable because it is simple to deploy and can be shipped, as LNG, to where it is needed to meet changing demand. Gas is a lower-carbon alternative to coal in power generation and industry, and to oil in transport. According to the IEA, globally, on average the life-cycle GHG emissions intensity of electricity produced from LNG is around 40% lower than electricity produced from coal [A]. LNG is the lowest-carbon marine fuel available at scale today and offers significant GHG emissions reductions compared with conventional fuels. Gas can balance renewable energy to provide stability for national grids. Shell has developed the world's largest LNG fuelling network of ports and bunker vessels on key trading routes, enabling more customers to choose LNG. Beyond our own production, we expect to continue to add scale and flexibility to our portfolio by buying LNG from others. Our integrated model is at the heart of LNG value creation, with our business spanning every stage of the LNG journey. Biofuels ￮ We invest in biofuels where we see growing customer demand and where we can use the strength of our supply and trading positions. Aviation and shipping remain some of the slower-to-decarbonise sectors and we expect that they will require low-carbon solutions, such as biofuels, at scale in the future. Shell is already one of the world's largest energy traders and blenders of biofuels, selling significantly more low-carbon fuels than we produce, using the strength of our trading business to expand sales beyond our production volumes. Through our Raízen joint venture in Brazil we are already the largest producer of second-generation ethanol and the leading sugar-cane ethanol producer globally. To support growing demand for biofuels this decade, we are developing more second-generation technologies. We are also developing technologies and feedstocks that aim to allow continued and sustainable growth in biofuels, while minimising impacts on the environment and food supplies. Integrated power ￮ Renewable power is expected to be critical for helping our commercial customers decarbonise, and we will continue to grow our integrated power business. We are making disciplined choices to create value from our portfolio, stepping back from activities that do not fit our strategy or generate enough return. We are focusing on selling power, including renewable power, to business customers. We are using and will continue to use the strength of our trading and optimisation capabilities to meet the growing need for flexible power storage solutions, such as batteries. We already have a significant presence in battery and storage through our third-party toll arrangements, ventures programme and investments in R&D. We are also using renewable power to decarbonise our own operations. Over time, we expect to use our renewable power capacity to produce low-carbon molecules, such as hydrogen. Electric vehicle charging ￮ We continue to invest in public electric vehicle charging in key markets such as China, Singapore, and Europe, where we see the greatest value emerging from growing customer demand and the competitive advantage provided by our global network of service stations. Our network is supported by our established convenience retail offering, which allows us to offer our customers coffee, food and other convenience items and services while they charge their cars. Our investment decisions are guided by factors such as network accessibility, market readiness, technical progress, and the policy landscape. Carbon capture and storage ￮ We are developing technologies related to carbon capture and storage (CCS) and carbon removals, which are necessary to reduce emissions where there are few low-carbon alternatives. For the rest of this decade, we expect to direct most of our investments in CCS towards decarbonising our own operations. We are also looking to turn this into a profitable business for Shell by helping other companies decarbonise their operations in the future. However, in many countries, CCS still lacks a clear business model. To address this challenge, Shell advocates policy mechanisms to enable CCS and supports industry partnerships dedicated to the growth of commercially viable CCS projects. [A] "Assessing Emissions from LNG Supply and Abatement Options" report from the IEA, June 19, 2025. 96 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on Shell's businesses, strategy and financial planning The transformation of the energy system to net-zero emissions will require simultaneous action in three areas: ￮ an unprecedented improvement in the efficiency with which energy is used; ￮ a sharp reduction in the carbon intensity of the energy mix; and ￮ the mitigation of residual emissions through the use of technology and natural sinks. While it is difficult to predict the exact combination of actions that will deliver the net-zero goal, scenarios help us to consider the variables, and the potential direction and pace of the transition needed. Scenarios are not intended to be predictions of likely future events or outcomes and, therefore, are not the basis for Shell's Operating Plans and financial statements. We have been developing scenarios within Shell for almost 60 years, helping Shell leaders to explore ways forward and make better decisions. Shell scenarios are designed to stretch management's thinking when it comes to considering events that may be possible, even if remotely. Scenarios help management to consider options and make choices in times of uncertainty and transition as we grapple with tough energy and environmental issues. They are aligned to different energy transition pathways and help in decision-making by guiding the identification of a wide range of risks and opportunities. Different socio-economic and technological parameters are used to construct these scenarios, such as: ￮ sectoral and regional energy demand; ￮ regulatory and geopolitical developments; ￮ future trajectory of oil consumption and demand for natural gas; ￮ renewable electricity demand and the pace of the electrification of the global energy system; ￮ supply of solar and wind energy; ￮ pace of uptake of electric vehicles; ￮ demand for biofuels; ￮ growth of the hydrogen economy; ￮ level of CCS available; ￮ deployment of low-carbon energy technologies; and ￮ global trade of oil and gas. Management consideration of different climate change outcomes informs a range of areas, including, but not limited to, the setting of the long-term strategy, business planning, and investment and divestment decisions. The outcomes considered by management vary in relation to the extent and pace of the energy transition. Carbon Management Framework (CMF) Shell's CMF provides the structure, processes, and responsibilities to drive delivery of Shell's climate-related targets and ambition. The CMF is designed to embed carbon considerations into core management processes so that Shell can help accelerate the energy transition profitably while meeting its GHG reduction commitments. An important part of the CMF is the use of carbon budgets for Scope 1 and 2 emissions as input and guidance for the annual business plan process. Carbon budgets are allocated at a business level as appropriate to support the optimisation of the business plan based on carbon/value synergies and dilemmas, and inform portfolio choices. For the 2025 business plan cycle, our 2030 Scope 1 and 2 and NCI targets and oil products emissions ambition were translated into a budget and guidance for each business. Performance against Shell's targets and ambition is monitored and reviewed by the EC on a quarterly basis, facilitating corrective action if required. Another important element of the CMF is the integration of GHG emissions in project evaluations. GHG requirements are embedded in Shell's Opportunity Realisation Standard with the aim of facilitating informed decision-making by identifying potential carbon/value synergies and dilemmas. Greenhouse gas and energy management Each Shell entity and Shell-operated venture is responsible for the development of its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions and Energy Management Plan. Plans are in place for all significant assets. Our GHG and Energy Management process sets out Shell's requirements for GHG reduction opportunities and portfolio choices to meet our carbon budgets and achieve our climate-related targets. These requirements allocate accountabilities for GHG and energy management within businesses, assets and projects, including responsibility for analysing our emissions, identifying improvement opportunities and forecasting future performance. These requirements are applied to capital project delivery and through the asset-level annual business planning process, ensuring it is reflected in both opportunity realisation and strategic asset management planning. A key aspect of the GHG and Energy Management process is the development of an energy efficiency and GHG reduction opportunity curve, economically assessed against the current and future costs of carbon. This information provides the basis for forecasts of absolute GHG emissions and associated intensities at the asset and project level. These forecasts are then aggregated to inform decisions on potential decarbonisation opportunities across our businesses. The Shell Global Process Council for GHG and Energy Management, led by the Global Process Owner for GHG and including business and functional experts, meets regularly to evaluate opportunities for the ongoing improvement of processes, tools, communications and capabilities needed within the businesses to achieve our climate-related targets. 97 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued Impact on strategic planning The application of scenario analysis informs our assessment of the impact of a wide range of risks and opportunities, including climate- change-related issues, on our strategy and business planning at the Group and business levels. At the Group level, the potential impacts of the energy transition on our business model are discussed and assessed by the Board and the EC as part of the annual business planning cycle. This assessment allows us to challenge accepted ways of thinking, identify material risks and opportunities, and identify key dilemmas and trade-offs. Key financial and non-financial components of business planning The Board approves our annual business plan. The plan contains operational and financial metrics, and its objective is to drive the delivery of our strategy. Decarbonisation targets are key to our business planning process. Each business owner offers viable Scope 1, 2 and 3 reduction opportunities as part of this process, in line with the CMF, see "Our approach to sustainability" on page 119. The business plan is underpinned by assumptions about internal and external parameters and includes: ￮ commodity prices; ￮ refining margins; ￮ production levels and product demand; ￮ exchange rates; ￮ future carbon costs; ￮ the schedules of capital investment programmes; and ￮ risks and opportunities that may have material impacts on free cash flow. These assumptions are developed with input from our scenarios and internal estimates and outlooks. The level of uncertainty around these assumptions increases over longer time horizons. Impact on business and financial planning There is no single scenario that underpins Shell's business and financial planning. Our scenarios help develop our future oil and gas pricing outlooks. These outlooks take account of factors relating to the energy transition, such as potential changes in supply and demand (see details of scenario parameters above). The low-, mid- and high-pricing outlooks are prepared by a team of experts, reviewed by the EC and approved by the CEO and CFO. The mid-price outlook represents management's reasonable best estimate and is the basis for Shell's financial statements, Operating Plans and impairment testing. Shell's Operating Plan reflects Shell's strategy. We will continue to update our Operating Plan, price outlooks and assumptions as we work to reduce emissions. As described in "Climate-related risks and opportunities identified by Shell over the short, medium and long term" on page 92, the low-pricing outlooks could result in increased commercial, regulatory and societal risks. The prioritisation of these risks is described in "Risk management" on page 31. We use low-pricing outlooks as part of our resilience testing and resulting actions. Our strategy and national net-zero commitments In accordance with UK Listing Rule 6.6.12G, we have taken into account the extent to which country-level net-zero commitments have been considered in developing our energy transition plans. Our strategy is to deliver more value with less emissions, and we have a target to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. The pace of the energy transition will be heavily influenced by government policy, which will create a strong country and regional dimension in seeking to deliver the goals of the Paris Agreement. Our commitment is a global one and, as such, we look to deliver our strategy through a global lens. We seek to translate our energy transition plans into specific targets and plans at a business segment level. We also seek to take capital deployment and portfolio decisions in the context of the integrated nature of our global operations. However, we continue to recognise the importance of engagement and collaboration in delivering the fundamental changes to the energy system that are required. This includes supporting and advocating for policies that aim to reduce carbon emissions and working with governments and other stakeholders in the development of policies that support the transition to a low-carbon energy system. As national transition plans develop, consideration will be given to the impact on our operations and the associated implications for our energy transition plans. Resilience of Shell's strategy to different climate-related scenarios Shell's financial strength and access to capital give us the ability to reshape our portfolio as the energy system transforms. They also allow us to withstand volatility in oil and gas markets. As we implement our strategy, we continue to exercise focus and discipline to optimise our capital allocation and operational expenditure, balancing energy security and demand, as well as internal and external transition considerations and opportunities. We will make disciplined choices about where we can create the most value for our investors and customers through the energy transition. Investing in the energy transition Cash capital expenditure evolution by segment * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. 98 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued Cash capital expenditure monitors investing activities on a cash basis, excluding items such as lease additions, which do not necessarily result in cash outflows in the period. The measure comprises the following items from the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: capital expenditure, investments in joint ventures and associates, and investments in equity securities. See Note 7 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 243-251 for the reconciliation of cash capital expenditure. Investing in the energy transition: Total cash capital expenditure Total cash capital expenditure of $20.9 billion in 2025 Non-energy products [A] $2.0 billion Low-carbon energy solutions [B] $2.0 billion LNG, gas and power marketing and trading [C] $4.6 billion Oil, oil products and other [D] $12.3 billion [A] Products for which usage does not cause Scope 3, Category 11 emissions: Lubricants, Chemicals, Convenience Retailing, Agriculture and Forestry, Construction and Road. [B] Electric vehicle charging services, renewable power generation, nature-based solutions, green hydrogen, CCS. We define low-carbon energy products as those that have an average carbon intensity that is lower than that of conventional hydrocarbon products, assessed on a life-cycle basis. [C] LNG Production and Trading, Gas and Power Trading, Energy Marketing. [D] Upstream segment, GTL, Refining and Trading, Marketing fuel and hydrocarbon sales, Shell Ventures, Corporate segment. Total cash capital expenditure was lower in 2025 compared with 2024 by $0.2 billion, driven by: ￮ Non-energy products: $0.2 billion lower spend due to the sale of Shell's Energy and Chemicals Park in Singapore in April 2025. ￮ Low-carbon energy solutions: $0.4 billion lower spend due to the cessation of construction of the planned biofuels facility at Shell's Energy and Chemicals Park in Rotterdam in July 2024 and lower spend on e-Mobility and on CCUS. ￮ LNG, gas and power marketing and trading: $0.4 billion lower spend compared with 2024 which included higher investments in Renewables and Energy Solutions. ￮ Oil, oil products and other: $0.8 billion higher spend due to the acquisitions of additional interests in Upstream in deep-water Brazil, Gulf of America and in Nigeria, partly offset by lower spend in Upstream conventional assets, in Mobility and in GTL. Cash capital expenditure in 2026 is expected to be around $12-14 billion for Integrated Gas and Upstream ($14.0 billion in 2025), and around $8 billion for Marketing, Chemicals and Products, and Renewables and Energy Solutions ($6.9 billion in 2025). Energy transition: Total cash capital expenditure by segment $ billion Classification [1] Segment 2025 2024 2023 Non-energy products [A] Marketing 0.6 2.0 0.6 2.2 0.9 2.3 Chemicals and Products 1.4 1.6 1.4 Low-carbon energy solutions [B] Marketing 0.5 2.0 0.8 2.4 3.3 5.6 Renewables and Energy Solutions 1.5 1.6 2.3 LNG, gas and power marketing and trading [C] Integrated Gas 4.3 4.6 4.2 5.0 3.7 4.0 Renewables and Energy Solutions 0.3 0.8 0.3 Oil, oil products and other [D] Integrated Gas 0.4 12.3 0.6 11.5 0.5 12.5 Upstream 9.3 7.9 8.3 Marketing 0.7 1.0 1.6 Chemicals and Products 1.7 1.8 1.6 Renewables and Energy Solutions 0.0 0.1 0.1 Corporate 0.1 0.1 0.4 Total 20.9 20.9 21.1 21.1 24.4 24.4 [1] See the corresponding footnotes under the table "Investing in the energy transition: Total cash capital expenditure" above for more details. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. 99 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued Operating expenses evolution by segment Operating expenses is a measure of Shell's cost management performance, comprising the following items from the "Consolidated Statement of Income" on page 214: production and manufacturing expenses; selling, distribution and administrative expenses; and research and development expenses. Total operating expenses in 2025 were $35.7 billion with a focus on structural cost savings and improved operational efficiency. Energy transition: Total operating expenses Total operating expenses of $35.7 billion in 2025 Non-energy products [A] $7.4 billion Low-carbon energy solutions [B] $1.8 billion LNG, gas and power marketing and trading [C] $5.0 billion Oil, oil products and other [D] $21.5 billion [A] Products for which usage does not cause Scope 3, Category 11 emissions: Lubricants, Chemicals, Convenience Retailing, Agriculture and Forestry, Construction and Road. [B] Electric vehicle charging services, renewable power generation, nature-based solutions, green hydrogen, CCS. We define low-carbon energy products as those that have an average carbon intensity that is lower than that of conventional hydrocarbon products, assessed on a life-cycle basis. [C] LNG Production and Trading, Gas and Power Trading, and Energy Marketing. [D] Upstream segment, GTL, Refining and Trading, Marketing fuel and hydrocarbon sales, Shell Ventures, Corporate segment. Total operating expenses by segment for 2026 (excluding the one-off impact of the pension fund transition in the Netherlands from a defined benefit pension fund to a defined contribution plan [A]) are expected to be approximately $9 billion for Upstream (2025: $9.0 billion), $4 billion for Integrated Gas (2025: $4.2 billion), $10 billion for Marketing (2025: $10.6 billion), $8 billion for Chemicals and Products (2025: $8.4 billion), and around $2 billion for Renewables and Energy Solutions (2025: $2.6 billion). [A] For more details of the pension fund transition in the Netherlands see Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements "Retirement benefits" on page 269. Energy transition: Total operating expenses by segment $ billion Classification [1] Segment 2025 2024 2023 Non-energy products [A] Marketing 3.8 7.4 3.9 7.4 4.1 8.1 Chemicals and Products 3.6 3.5 4.0 Low-carbon energy solutions [B] Marketing 0.9 1.8 0.7 1.9 0.9 2.2 Renewables and Energy Solutions 0.9 1.2 1.3 LNG, gas and power marketing and trading [C] Integrated Gas 3.4 5.0 3.7 5.4 4.0 6.5 Renewables and Energy Solutions 1.6 1.7 2.5 Oil, oil products and other [D] Integrated Gas 0.8 21.5 0.8 22.2 0.8 23.2 Upstream 9.0 9.8 9.8 Marketing 6.0 6.0 6.2 Chemicals and Products 4.8 4.9 5.6 Renewables and Energy Solutions 0.0 0.0 0.0 Corporate 0.9 0.7 0.8 Total 35.7 35.7 36.9 36.9 40.0 40.0 [1] See the footnotes under the table "Energy transition: Total operating expenses" above for more details. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. Key aspects of Shell's financial resilience in the context of climate-related impacts are assessed and described in more detail in Note 4 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 228. This describes how Shell has considered climate-related impacts in key areas of the financial statements and how this translates into the valuation of assets and measurement of liabilities. Shell's financial statements are based on reasonable and supportable assumptions that represent management's best estimate of the range of economic conditions that may exist in the foreseeable future. Sensitivity analysis using external, and often normative, climate change scenarios has been performed for the period covering asset life cycles. If these different price outlooks were used, this would impact the recoverability of certain assets recognised in the "Consolidated Balance Sheet" as at December 31, 2025. 100 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued As there is no single scenario that underpins our Operating Plan, sensitivity analysis has been conducted using a range of key assumptions to test the resilience of our asset base. This includes (but is not limited to): ￮ sensitivity analysis on asset carrying values using commodity price outlooks from external, and often normative, climate change scenarios; ￮ carbon price sensitivities; ￮ chemical and refining margins price sensitivities; and ￮ discount rate sensitivities. Commodity price sensitivities Oil and gas prices are one of the key assumptions that underpin Shell's financial statements, with the mid-price outlook informed by Shell's scenario planning representing management's reasonable best estimate. Price outlooks reflect a broad range of factors, including, but not limited to, future supply and demand, and the pace of growth of low-carbon solutions. The scenarios have been selected to illustrate the resilience of the asset base under a range of possible outcomes, including the price implications arising from the ambitious IEA Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (IEA NZE50), which provides a potential, yet narrow, pathway for the global energy system to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050. Sensitivities of asset carrying values to prices are under the assumption that all other factors in the models used to calculate impacts remain unchanged. Sensitivity analysis has been performed using price outlooks from: 1. Average prices from three 1.5-2°C external climate change scenarios: in view of the broad range of price outlooks across the various scenarios, the average of three external price outlooks was taken from IHS Markit/ACCS 2024, Woodmac WM AET-1.5 degree (2024 [A]), and IEA NZE50. Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $77 billion and Upstream assets of $77 billion as at December 31, 2025, shows recoverable amounts that are $13-17 billion and $3-5 billion lower, respectively, than the carrying values as at December 31, 2025. [A] The latest available published scenario. 2. Hybrid Shell Plan and IEA NZE50: for this Shell's mid-price outlook is applied for the next 10 years. Because of greater uncertainty, the IEA normative Net Zero Emissions scenario is applied for the period after 10 years. This gives less weight to the price-risk uncertainty in the first 10 years reflected in the Operating Plan period and applies more risk to the more uncertain subsequent periods. Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $77 billion and Upstream assets of $77 billion as at December 31, 2025, shows recoverable amounts that are $9-13 billion and $1-3 billion lower, respectively, than the carrying values as at December 31, 2025. 3. A 1.5°C scenario, derived from IEA NZE50: this priceline applies the IEA normative Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario over the whole period under review and reflects the sensitivity to a pure net-zero emissions scenario from the IEA. Applying this priceline to Integrated Gas assets of $77 billion and Upstream assets of $77 billion as at December 31, 2025, shows recoverable amounts that are $15-19 billion and $5-7 billion lower, respectively, than the carrying values as at December 31, 2025. In addition, further sensitivities are provided of −10% or +10% to Shell's mid-price outlook, as an average percentage over the full period. A change of −10% or +10% to the mid-price outlook, as an average percentage over the full period, would result in around $7-10 billion impairment or $2-5 billion impairment reversal, respectively, in Integrated Gas and Upstream as at December 31, 2025. Carbon pricing We consider the potential costs associated with operational GHG emissions when we assess the resilience of projects. For each region, we have developed short-, medium- and long-term estimates of the future costs of carbon. These are reviewed and updated annually. See Note 4 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 228 for further details on our regional cost of carbon estimates. Up to 2030, costs for carbon emissions estimates are largely climate-policy-driven through emissions trading schemes or taxation levied by governments, which varies significantly on a country-by-country basis. Beyond 2030, the costs for carbon emissions are assessed based on expectations for future carbon abatement technology costs and country/region-specific policies and conditions. Carbon costs vary by country due to differences in climate ambition, policy choice, and domestic economic and energy circumstances. In 2050, the estimated cost is trending towards $50/tCO 2 e (least developed countries with high economic/geopolitical risks) to $185/tCO 2 e (EU/UK) and $230/tCO 2 e (Norway) (RT25) in climate-leading geographies. See "The resilience of Shell's strategy" on page 98 for more information on how carbon costs impact our resilience to climate-related risks, including sensitivity analysis. See Shell's "Climate and Energy Transition Lobbying Report 2024", published in May 2025, for more information on Shell's advocacy across a range of issues, including carbon pricing. Carbon pricing and discount rate sensitivities The risk of stranded assets may increase in a higher-carbon-price scenario. Sensitivities of our asset carrying values to carbon prices have been based on the IEA NZE50 scenario to illustrate the resilience of asset carrying values to higher long-term carbon prices than those included in the Shell mid-price outlook. Applying the IEA NZE50 carbon price scenario to Integrated Gas assets of $77 billion and Upstream assets of $77 billion, up to the end of life of these assets, shows recoverable amounts that are $2-3 billion and up to $1 billion lower, respectively, than the carrying values as at December 31, 2025. Applying the IEA NZE50 carbon price scenario to Chemicals and Products assets of $39 billion shows recoverable amounts that are up to $2 - 3 billion lower than the carrying values as at December 31, 2025. For Chemicals and Products, increased carbon costs could potentially be recovered partially through increased product sales prices. See "Carbon pricing" above for more information on our carbon price assumptions. The discount rate applied for impairment testing is based on a nominal post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) and is determined at 7.5%, except for power activities in the Renewables and Energy Solutions segment, where 6% is applied. The discount rate includes generic systematic risk for energy transition risk. In addition, cash flow projections applied in individual assets include specific asset risks, including risk of transition. An increase in generic systematic energy transition risk could lead to a higher WACC and consequently to a higher discount rate to be applied in impairment testing. We have used a 1% shift in discount rate for sensitivity analysis purposes as an indicator of the resilience of our asset base to incremental increases in our cost of capital. 101 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued An increase of the WACC of 1% – under the assumption that all other factors in the models used to calculate recoverability of carrying values remain unchanged – would lead to a change in the carrying value of $3-6 billion for Integrated Gas and Upstream and no significant impairment in other segments. See Note 4 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 228-239 for further information on climate-related impacts in key areas of the financial statements. Delivering progress in the energy transition To ensure the resilience of our strategy, our responses to the risks and opportunities identified are: ￮ delivery through our integrated business model; ￮ decarbonisation of our energy value chains and operations; and ￮ a focus on demand-driven decarbonisation – recognising that we need to work with our customers to identify low-carbon energy solutions for their energy demands in the sectors where we have competitive advantages. Our integrated approach allows us to withstand volatility in oil and gas markets. Our financial framework aims to enhance shareholder distributions and maintain discipline in capital allocation, and targets a strong credit investment grade rating. We are: ￮ Growing our integrated gas and LNG business: We plan to grow LNG sales by 4-5% (CAGR) a year through to 2030. Gas, including LNG, is a stabilising force in energy systems because it is versatile, flexible and reliable. Gas is a lower-carbon alternative to coal in power generation and industry, and to oil in transport. Gas can balance renewable energy to provide stability for national grids. We believe that supplying LNG will be the biggest contribution we will make through the next decade of the energy transition as we help to build the energy system of the future. ￮ Keeping liquids production stable: The role of oil and gas will be critical to the energy system for decades to come. We aim to sustain liquids production through to 2030 and will focus on basins where we have a competitive advantage. We will prioritise cost- and carbon-competitive molecules. The oil we are producing will increasingly come from our world-class deep-water business. We are developing deep-water fields into the 2030s by developing new projects near existing oil and gas fields, leveraging our technical expertise, strong partnerships and our model of simplification and replication. ￮ Transforming Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions: We are making clear choices and changes to enable this business to thrive through the energy transition. We are focusing on developing low-carbon energy and solutions where we have competitive advantages and are starting to see increasing demand. We are focusing on value over volume across all our businesses in Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions, and are working to unlock value in power and low-carbon solutions. This will support our climate-related targets and ambition, and position us for growth in hydrogen, CCS and low-carbon fuels. ￮ We are progressing significant abatement projects at our chemicals manufacturing plants and refineries; these key focused assets allow us to underpin our hydrocarbon energy sales and the sales of low-carbon energy products. Our energy transition plans for this decade across our Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions business are focused on: investing in biofuels, continuing to grow our integrated power business, growing our electric vehicle charging business where demand is strongest, and developing technologies related to CCS and carbon removals. See "Our strategy" on pages 20-22. Our research and development (R&D) activities are an important contributor to achieving our climate-related targets and ambition. They are an important way to address the technology risk as mentioned in "Transition risks" on page 93 and "Transition opportunities" on page 96. In 2025, our R&D expenditure on projects that aim to contribute to decarbonisation was around $485 million, representing about 41% of our total R&D spend, compared with around 45% in 2024. This includes expenditure on reducing GHG emissions: ￮ from our own operations, for example, by improving energy efficiency and electrification; ￮ from the fuels and other products we sell to our customers - for example, synthetic fuels, biofuels, and products made from low-carbon electricity, and hydrogen produced using renewable sources; ￮ by carbon capture, utilisation and storage applied to hydrogen production from natural gas and other carbon emissions; and ￮ for our customers, through renewable power generation, storage, e-mobility and other electrification solutions. Other examples of R&D areas include safety; performance products, such as lubricants and polymers; automation and AI. Decarbonising our value chains and operations We seek to base the decarbonisation of our value chains and operations on an understanding of the decarbonisation strategies and plans of our customers and users of our energy products. We are focused on decarbonising our own operations by: ￮ using more renewable electricity to power our operations; ￮ developing CCS for some of our facilities; ￮ improving the energy efficiency of our operations; and ￮ making portfolio changes such as acquisitions and investments in low carbon intensity projects, decommissioning facilities, and divesting assets while sustaining our liquids production. If required, we may choose to use high-quality carbon credits to offset any remaining emissions from our operations, in line with the carbon mitigation hierarchy of avoid, reduce and compensate, or to meet local regulatory requirements. We have set an interim target to achieve a 50% reduction in absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions under our operational control by 2030 on a net basis, compared with 2016. We set a target in 2021 to eliminate routine flaring from our upstream-operated assets by 2025, five years ahead of the World Bank's Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative. In March 2024, we clarified that this target was subject to the completion of the sale of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC). Routine flaring burns gas that is not used or reinjected into wells, which is inefficient and contributes to climate change. We ceased routine flaring in January 2025, achieving our target to eliminate routine flaring from our upstream-operated assets by 2025. This was independent of the completion of the sale of SPDC to Renaissance on March 13, 2025. We also have a target to maintain methane emissions intensity for operated oil and gas assets below 0.2% and achieve near-zero methane emissions intensity by 2030. We plan to meet these targets by reducing methane emissions from flaring and venting; conducting leak detection and repair activities; and electrifying certain facilities to reduce gas combustion, such as at our Montney gas plant in Canada. See Working to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions on page 114. 102 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Shell and the energy transition continued Supporting our customers to decarbonise The transport sector is by far the largest market for our oil products. We are building on our customer relationships and expertise to help drive the decarbonisation of passenger cars, heavy-duty trucks, planes and ships. Changes to the supply of energy products and decarbonising the energy system require structural changes in the end use of energy. This requires energy users to improve, update or replace equipment so that they can use carbon-based energy more efficiently, or switch to low- and zero-carbon energy. We are helping customers across different sectors to decarbonise their use of energy, for example by substituting the use of coal with LNG, replacing internal combustion engine vehicles with electric vehicles, transitioning heavy-duty transport to drop-in fuels and, in the future, converting to hydrogen and its derivatives if viable. Such structural changes are expected to help trigger transitions along the supply chain of individual sectors and across sectors, including the production of energy and emissions over time. The IEA estimates these changes in the end use of energy will require substantial investment. The World Energy Outlook 2025 report by the IEA includes an estimate that global annual energy investment in the NZE scenario needs to rise by nearly 50% over the next decade, with 90% of the spend directed towards clean energy, including renewables, grids and storage, efficiency and low‑emissions fuels. Emissions resulting from customer use of our energy products make up a large proportion of the emissions Shell reports. We offer our customers low-carbon energy products and services. We continue to evaluate market dynamics and exercise capital discipline as we work to meet our customers' need for affordable energy products and services. In this context, we stopped construction of our Rotterdam biofuels plant in the Netherlands because it would not have been competitive enough to meet our customers' need for affordable, low-carbon products. Shell has an important role to play in the evolving energy system. We provide the oil and gas people need today and we are helping to build the energy system of the future, with low-carbon energy products and solutions, including biofuels. Shell is one of the world's largest traders and suppliers of biofuels. We will continue to: ￮ develop low-carbon alternatives to traditional fuel, and other low- carbon products - such as biofuels, hydrogen and renewable electricity; ￮ provide more renewable power solutions to customers by using the strength of our trading business to expand sales beyond our production volumes and growing our portfolio in select markets; and ￮ address any remaining emissions from conventional fuels with solutions such as CCS and high-quality carbon credits. Energy transition in action – selection of portfolio changes and actions in 2025 Decarbonising our value chains and operations In March 2025, the Wesseling site hydrocracker at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland in Germany stopped processing crude oil into petrol, jet fuel and diesel. Wesseling is being transformed to produce Group III base oils, used to make high-quality lubricants such as engine and transmission oils, as well as electric vehicle fluids. We have continued to make portfolio changes including: ￮ the divestment of SPDC, which was the last remaining asset under Shell operational control conducting routine flaring. We had ceased routine flaring in January 2025, in advance of and independent of the sale of SPDC to Renaissance, which was completed in March 2025; ￮ the divestment of Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore to CAPGC Pte. Ltd. in April 2025. The divestment was in line with Shell's ongoing efforts to high-grade its Chemicals and Products business; and ￮ the acquisition of RISEC Holdings, LLC and its 609 MW two-unit combined-cycle gas turbine power plant by our Renewables and Energy Solutions business in January 2025. In September 2025, the Montney gas plant in British Colombia, Canada, replaced 14 natural gas compressor engines with electric motors. The new motors use electricity from the predominantly hydropower-supplied power grid, enabling an expected full-year annual reduction of over 149,000 tonnes of CO 2 e. Construction continued on the REFHYNE II 100 MW hydrogen electrolyser at Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland. In November 2025, Shell Energy Europe Limited signed two separate power purchase agreements (PPA) in Germany with Nordsee One GmbH and Solarkraftwerk Halenbeck-Rohlsdorf I/II GmbH. The agreements will secure a significant proportion of the renewable electricity needed to power the REFHYNE II hydrogen electrolyser. In the Netherlands, construction of Holland Hydrogen I, one of Europe's largest renewable hydrogen plants, is progressing well, and we expect to start commissioning towards the end of 2026, with production ramp-up in 2027. Construction continued at the Polaris carbon capture facility at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Scotford in Alberta, Canada. Polaris is designed to capture around 650,000 tonnes of CO 2 annually from the refinery and chemicals complex. Supporting our customers to decarbonise By the end of 2025, the number of public charge points globally at Shell forecourts, on-street locations, mobility hubs and other sites, such as supermarkets, was almost 88,000 compared with almost 73,000 in 2024. In June 2025, Shell Energy Europe Limited and Vodafone Procure & Connect launched a pilot project to explore how battery storage could support more flexible and sustainable energy use in the future. The project will assess how large-scale batteries participate in the grid and inform energy management strategies. Vodafone Procure & Connect will access part of the operational benefits from Shell's 100 MW, 3‑hour battery site in Hampshire -- one of the UK's largest grid‑connected facilities. In March 2025, the Northern Lights joint venture (Shell interest 33.3%) took an FID on moving forward with Phase 2 of the project, following a commercial agreement with Swedish energy provider, Stockholm Exergi, for the cross-border transport and storage of up to 900,000 tonnes of biogenic CO 2 annually for 15 years. (See page 85 for more details of our Northern Lights CCS venture). In September 2025, Google selected Shell Energy Europe Limited as its renewable energy supply manager in the UK, under the USA-based technology company's Carbon-Free Energy supply model to reach its goal of running entirely on clean energy by 2030. 103 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition This section describes our performance against our climate-related targets and ambition, including those reflected in the remuneration of senior management and employees. [A] This target was subject to the completion of the sale of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC). We ceased routine flaring of associated gas in January 2025, achieving our target independent of the sale of SPDC to Renaissance which was completed on March 13, 2025. Routine flaring for 2024 was revised from 0.1 million tonnes to 0.01 million tonnes. See page 106 for details. [B] Methane intensity is measured and calculated separately for oil and gas assets with marketed gas (gas, LNG and GTL available for sale) and assets without marketed gas (oil and gas assets where gas is reinjected). [C] Average intensity, weighted by sales volume, of the energy products we sell, on an equity boundary, net of carbon credits. Estimated total GHG emissions included in NCI reflect well-to-wheel emissions associated with energy products sold by Shell. This includes the well-to-tank emissions associated with the manufacturing of energy products by others that are sold by Shell. [D] Scope 3, Category 11. 104 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition continued Metrics used by Shell to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with our strategy and risk management process This section sets out the metrics we use to track progress against our climate-related targets and ambition. These metrics are as follows: ￮ Metrics related to our own operations: – absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions under operational control, with a 2016 baseline; and – routine flaring and methane emissions intensity under operational control. ￮ Metrics related to emissions from the products we sell: – the NCI of the energy products we sell (equity basis), with a 2016 baseline; and – customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11, equity basis), with a 2021 baseline. ￮ Performance indicators for the energy transition performance condition reflected in the remuneration of senior management and employees as set out in "Linking Shell's emissions targets to remuneration" on page 115. ￮ Additional metrics associated with the resilience of Shell's strategy to climate-related risks and opportunities, including information on capital allocation between our business segments and the sensitivity of our assets to carbon pricing, discount rate and commodity price assumptions as set out in "Resilience of Shell's strategy to different climate-related scenarios" on page 98. ￮ Metrics and targets in respect of climate-related environmental risks as set out in "Metrics and targets in respect of climate-related environmental risks" on page 112. Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions and related risks Scope 1 and 2 emissions under our operational control and Scope 3 emissions on an equity basis are reported in this section. For details of the "Climate-related risks and opportunities identified by Shell over the short, medium and long term" see pages 92-96. Scope 1 and 2 emissions In 2025, total combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (net) from assets and activities under Shell operational control were 53 million tonnes of CO 2 e, reflecting a 36% reduction compared with 2016, the base year for our target to halve these emissions by 2030. T otal combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (net) were 9% lower compared with 2024 due to portfolio changes, reductions from abatement projects and downtime at various sites. Key portfolio changes included the completion of the sale of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) by our Upstream business in March 2025, the sale of Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore by our Chemicals and Products business in April 2025 and the acquisition of RISEC Holdings, LLC and its 609 MW two-unit combined-cycle gas turbine power plant by our Renewables and Energy Solutions business in January 2025. Reductions from abatement projects mainly consisted of transformation projects at the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rheinland in Germany, compressor electrification in Canada and catalyst improvements in Qatar. Drivers of Scope 1 and 2 emissions Gross direct GHG emissions (Scope 1, operational control boundary) were 46 million tonnes of CO 2 e in 2025. This was lower than in 2024 (50 million tonnes of CO 2 e) mainly due to portfolio changes and abatement projects. Gross indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2, operational control boundary, using a market-based method) fell from 8 million tonnes of CO 2 e in 2024 to 7 million tonnes CO 2 e in 2025, mainly driven by divestments. Examples of our energy efficiency projects can be found on page 117. Scope 1 and 2 emissions [D] [E] million tonnes CO 2 e (operational control boundary) 2025 2024 2023 2016 Scope 1 emissions (gross) [A] 46 50 50 72 Scope 2 emissions (gross) [B] 7 8 7 11 Carbon credits [C] — 0.1 — — Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions (net) [F] 53 58 57 83 [A] Total direct GHG emissions from assets and activities under our operational control. It includes emissions from the production of energy and non-energy products. Scope 1 emissions are reported gross without the inclusion of carbon credits. [B] Total indirect GHG emissions from imported energy from assets and activities under our operational control using a market-based method. It includes imported energy used for the production of energy and non-energy products. Scope 2 emissions are reported gross without the inclusion of carbon credits. [C] Carbon credits used to offset Scope 1 emissions for compliance purposes, such as under the Australian Safeguard Mechanism. [D] Oil and gas industry guidelines from Ipieca indicate that several sources of uncertainty can contribute to the overall uncertainty in Scope 1 and 2 emissions inventories. [E] Figures disclosed are rounded. Rounding differences can occur between the total combined Scope 1 and 2 absolute GHG emissions disclosed in this Report and the sum of components individually rounded to the nearest million tonnes. [F] We measure total combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions compared with a 2016 baseline, on a net basis. The 2016 baseline may be recalculated if an acquisition or a divestment has an impact of more than 10% on total Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Scope 1 and 2 emissions (net) by business [A] [B] million tonnes CO 2 e [A] Total direct (Scope 1) and energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions from assets and activities under the operational control boundary, net of carbon credits. It includes emissions from the production of energy and non-energy products. For Scope 2, we used a market-based method. [B] Figures disclosed are rounded. The split between Scope 1 and 2 may not add up to the total due to rounding. [C] Renewables and Energy Solutions, Marketing and functions (Projects & Technology and Real Estate). 105 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition continued Drivers of absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions change Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (net): Changes from 2016 to 2024 and from 2024 to 2025 million tonnes CO 2 e [A] Total Scope 1 and 2 emissions, rounded to the nearest million tonnes. Scope 2 emissions were calculated using a market-based method. [B] In addition to reductions from GHG abatement and energy efficiency projects, this category includes reductions from permanent shutdowns and conversion of existing assets. [C] Excludes 8.8 million tonnes of CO 2 captured and sequestered by the Shell-operated Quest CCS facility in Canada in 2016-2024. [D] Excludes 0.9 million tonnes of CO 2 captured and sequestered by the Shell-operated Quest CCS facility in Canada in 2025. [E] Of the 1,238 thousand tonnes of reduction activities and purchased renewable electricity in 2025, around 20 thousand tonnes related to purchased renewable electricity. [F] Change in output relates to changes in production levels, including those resulting from shutdowns and turnarounds as well as production from new facilities. [G] In 2025, mainly driven by measurement improvements. Routine flaring Routine flaring of associated gas occurs during normal oil production where it is not possible to transport the gas to market, use it on site or reinject it. Since 2016, routine flaring from upstream operations under Shell operational control reduced from 1.1 million tonnes to around 10 thousand tonnes in 2024. With SPDC ceasing routine flaring in January 2025, we achieved our target to eliminate routine flaring by 2025. This was independent of the sale of SPDC to Renaissance completed on March 13, 2025. Total routine flaring [A] million tonnes (operational control boundary) 2025 2024 [B] 2023 2016 Total hydrocarbons flared in routine flaring — 0.01 0.1 1.1 [A] Routine flaring of associated gas occurs during normal oil production where it is not possible to transport the gas to market, use it on site or reinject it. [B] Revised from 0.1 million tonnes to 0.01 million tonnes following a reclassification between routine and non-routine flaring, with no change to total hydrocarbons flared in 2024. Total routine and non-routine flaring at our Integrated Gas and Upstream facilities was 0.4 million tonnes in 2025, compared with 0.6 million tonnes in 2024, a reduction mainly driven by the sale of SPDC. Methane intensity In 2025, we continued to deliver methane emissions intensities well below our 0.2% target, with overall methane emissions intensity at 0.04% for Shell-operated oil and gas assets with marketed gas and 0.002% for Shell-operated oil and gas assets without marketed gas. Total methane emissions from assets under Shell operational control (including Integrated Gas, Upstream, Chemicals and Products, Marketing and Renewables and Energy Solutions assets) were 31 thousand tonnes in 2025 compared with 33 thousand tonnes in 2024 following divestments, reduced venting and infrastructure improvements which more than offset increases from improved measurement-based reporting practices, an increase in fugitive emissions at Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo), and updated methods for estimation of sources for biogas process venting at Renewable Natural Gas sites. Total methane emissions under Shell operational control were reduced by 78% between 2016 (138 thousand tonnes) and 2025. We believe our methane emissions are quantified according to industry best practice. Methane emissions include those from unintentional leaks, venting and incomplete combustion, for example in flares and turbines. Methane emissions intensity Percentage (operational control boundary) 2025 2024 2023 2016 Methane emissions intensity – assets with marketed gas [A] 0.04% 0.04% 0.05% 0.10% Methane emissions intensity – assets without marketed gas [B] 0.002% 0.001% 0.001% 0.03% [A] Methane emissions intensity from all Shell-operated oil and gas assets that market their gas (including LNG and GTL assets), defined as the total volume of methane emissions in normal cubic metres (Nm 3 ) per total volume of gas available for sale in Nm 3 . [B] Methane emissions intensity from all Shell-operated oil and gas assets that do not market their gas (such as where gas is reinjected), defined as the total mass of methane emissions in tonnes per total mass of oil and condensate available for sale in tonnes. 106 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition continued Scope 3 and NCI NCI performance In 2025, Shell's NCI was 71 grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per megajoule of energy (gCO 2 e/MJ). At a comparable level with 2024, our NCI in 2025 benefited from higher sales of renewable power and lower sales of oil products, partly offset by fewer carbon credit retirements. Shell's NCI reduction of 9.0% compared with the 2016 baseline meets our interim target of a reduction of 9-13% in 2025. NCI performance (equity boundary) 2025 2024 2023 2016 NCI [A] [B] gCO 2 e/MJ 71 71 72 78 Estimated total energy delivered by Shell [C] trillion (10 12 ) MJ 15.63 15.85 16.13 20.80 Estimated total GHG emissions included in NCI (net) [D] million tonnes CO 2 e 1,108 1,122 1,158 1,615 Carbon credits million tonnes CO 2 e 5.5 16.4 20.0 — Estimated total GHG emissions (gross) million tonnes CO 2 e 1,113 1,139 1,178 1,615 [A] Rounded to the nearest gCO 2 e/MJ. [B] We measure our NCI performance compared with a 2016 baseline. The NCI targets and baseline are not adjusted for the impact of acquisitions and divestments, which could have a material impact on meeting the NCI targets. [C] Volume of energy products sold, aggregated on an energy basis, with power represented as fossil equivalent. Energy products consist of energy oil products (gasoline, diesel, kerosene, fuel oil and LPG), GTL, biofuels, LNG, pipeline gas and power. [D] Estimated total GHG emissions included in NCI (net) are the product of the NCI and the total energy delivered by Shell. Adding emissions offset using carbon credits gives the Estimated total GHG emissions included in NCI (gross). As part of our strategy, we aim to increase the share of low-carbon products in our energy product sales, which is the biggest driver for reducing our NCI. Share of estimated total energy delivered per energy product type [A] [B] [A] P ercentage of delivered energy may not add up to 100% because of rounding. [B] Total volume of energy products sold, aggregated on an energy basis (lower heating value) with power represented as fossil equivalents. Our ability to change the emissions intensity of each energy product varies, depending on the product type: ￮ Hydrocarbon fuels - emissions from end use by customers are by far the biggest contributors to the carbon intensity of the product. As a result, the emissions intensity of hydrocarbon fuels is expected to stay relatively unchanged over time. This is why we are focused on helping our customers decarbonise. ￮ Biofuels - can vary significantly in intensity depending on the feedstock and production process used. ￮ Power - the emissions intensity of power can be highly variable depending on how it has been generated. The proportion of our renewable power sales and the generation mix in countries where we sell power to the market both affect Shell's overall power mix and its resulting emissions intensity. We sell more energy products than we produce ourselves. Therefore, when we estimate total GHG emissions included in NCI, we include emissions from energy products that we produce ourselves and from the products that we purchase from others for resale. This is reflected in the NCI scope shown in the chart on page 110. Life-cycle carbon intensities for energy product categories included in the NCI calculation are summarised in the table below: Carbon intensity of energy products gCO 2 e/MJ 2025 2024 2023 2016 Oil products and gas-to-liquids (GTL) 85 86 87 87 Gas 65 66 66 66 Liquefied natural gas (LNG) 70 70 70 73 Biofuels 33 34 34 38 Power [A] 46 48 49 60 [A] Emissions included in the carbon intensity of power have been calculated using a market-based method. 107 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition continued Drivers of absolute Scope 3 emissions change in 2025 Scope 3 emissions associated with our energy product sales were 1,065 million tonnes CO 2 e, compared with 1,084 million tonnes CO 2 e in 2024. Higher emissions from the use of the liquefied natural gas (LNG) we sell were more than offset by lower emissions from the use of our oil products sold and lower emissions associated with our purchases of non-renewable power from third parties. Emissions from Scope 3, Categories 1, 3, 9 and 11, related to the sale of energy products, are the most significant categories for Shell. Emissions from the use of our energy products (Category 11) form the largest component of the indirect Scope 3 emissions we report. As we sell more products than we produce or refine ourselves, the emissions associated with the products we purchase from third parties are also material, as reported under Category 1 for hydrocarbon products, such as oil products, gas and LNG, and Category 3 for power. Although quantitatively less significant, emissions reported under Category 9 are significant to Shell for consistency with the boundaries of our NCI. Other Scope 3 categories have been assessed to be quantitatively and qualitatively insignificant. Scope 3 emissions by category [A] [B] million tonnes CO 2 e (equity boundary) 2025 2024 2023 2016 Scope 3, Category 1: purchased goods and services 122 119 130 179 Scope 3, Category 3: fuel and energy-related activities 103 117 112 89 Scope 3, Category 9: downstream transport and distribution [C] 4 3 3 — Scope 3, Category 11: use of sold products 836 845 878 1,252 1,065 1,084 1,123 1,520 [A] Categorised using the definitions from the GHG Protocol's Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard. [B] Ipieca notes that, due to the diversity of Scope 3 emissions, sources and the fact that these emissions occur outside the company's boundaries, the emissions estimates may be less accurate or may have a high uncertainty. [C] An estimate of Scope 3, Category 9 could not be performed for 2016. Drivers of absolute Scope 3, Category 11 oil products emissions change in 2025 In 2025, Scope 3, Category 11 emissions from the use of our oil products were 467 million tonnes CO 2 e, a reduction of 4.9% compared with 2024. This reduction was driven by lower sales in our Products business following completion of the sale of the Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore in April 2025 and by lower Mobility sales. At the end of 2025, we achieved a reduction of 17.9% compared with 2021, as part of our ambition to reduce customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) by 15-20% by 2030 compared with 2021. Customer emissions from the use of our oil products million tonnes CO 2 e (equity boundary) 2025 2024 2023 2021 Scope 3, Category 11: use of sold products (oil products) 467 491 517 569 Carbon credits In 2025, Shell accounted for the retirement of 5.8 million carbon credits, of which 5.5 million were related to our NCI (including 2.0 million linked to the sale of energy products). We carefully source and screen the credits we purchase and retire from the market. Of our total carbon credit retirements for 2025, 59% were certified by the Verra Verified Carbon Standard Program (VCS), 22% by Gold Standard, 10% by the ACR carbon crediting programme and 9% via Climate Action Reserve. Carbon credit retirements [A] million carbon credits [B] (equity boundary) 2025 2024 2023 2016 Included in Shell's NCI metric [C] 5.5 16.4 20 — Excluded from Shell's NCI metric [D] 0.3 0.9 1.8 — 5.8 17.3 21.8 — [A] Credits related to transactions occurring in the financial year irrespective of the actual retirement date. Retirements from registries may take place after the year-end. Excludes carbon credit transactions executed by Shell on behalf of/with third parties without a link to Shell activities. [B] One carbon credit represents the avoidance or removal of one metric tonne of CO 2 equivalent. [C] Carbon credits associated with the sale of energy products and carbon credits used to compensate for Shell Group emissions, including operational emissions and emissions associated with the use of sold products. [D] Carbon credits retired in relation to sales of non-energy products and Shell's internal activity, e.g. corporate travel. 108 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition continued Basis of preparation NCI Shell's NCI is the average intensity, weighted by sales volumes, of the energy products sold by Shell. It is tracked, measured and reported using Shell's Net Carbon Footprint (NCF) methodology. NCI objective Shell's NCI provides an annual measure of the life-cycle emissions intensity of the portfolio of energy products sold. The intended use of the NCI metric is to track progress in reducing the overall carbon intensity of the energy products sold by Shell. NCI measures emissions associated with each unit of energy we sell, compared with a 2016 baseline. It reflects changes in sales of oil and gas products, and changes in sales of low-carbon products such as biofuels and renewable electricity. NCI definition The NCI is calculated on a life-cycle basis and as such includes GHG emissions – on an equity basis – from several sources, including: ￮ direct GHG emissions from Shell operations; ￮ indirect GHG emissions from the generation of energy consumed by Shell; ￮ indirect emissions associated with the production, processing and transport of third-party products we buy; and ￮ indirect GHG emissions from the use of the products we sell. The NCI is not a mathematical derivation of total emissions divided by total energy, nor is it an inventory of absolute emissions. It is a weighted average of the life-cycle CO 2 intensities of different energy products, normalising them to the same point relative to their final end use. The use of a consistent functional unit gCO 2 e/MJ allows like-for-like comparisons and the aggregation of individual life-cycle intensities for a range of energy products, including renewable power. Emissions from other parts of the product life cycle are also included, such as those from the extraction, transport and processing of crude oil, gas or other feedstocks and the distribution of products to our customers. Also included are emissions from parts of this life cycle not owned by Shell, such as the extraction of oil and gas processed by Shell but not produced by Shell; or from the production of oil products and electricity marketed by Shell that have not been processed or generated at a Shell facility. We also take into account emissions offset through the use of carbon credits and mitigation actions, such as the use of CCS technology. See "Scope of NCI" on page 110 for details of the supply chains and steps in the product life cycles that are included in the NCF methodology. The following GHG emissions are not included in the NCI: ￮ emissions from production, processing, use and end-of-life treatment of non-energy products, such as chemicals and lubricants; ￮ emissions from third-party processing of sold intermediate products, such as the manufacture of plastics from feedstocks sold by Shell; ￮ emissions associated with the construction and decommissioning of production and manufacturing facilities; ￮ emissions associated with the production of fuels purchased to generate energy on-site at a Shell facility; ￮ other indirect emissions from waste generated in operations, business travel, employee commuting, transmission and distribution losses associated with imported electricity, franchises and investments; and ￮ emissions from capital goods, defined by the GHG Protocol as including fixed assets or property, plant and equipment, and other goods and services not related to purchased energy feedstocks sourced from third parties or energy products manufactured by third parties and sold by Shell. The NCI calculation uses Shell's energy product sales volumes data, as disclosed in this report where relevant. This excludes certain sales volumes, such as: ￮ certain contracts held for trading purposes reported net rather than gross. Business-specific methodologies to net volumes have been applied in oil products and pipeline gas and power. Paper trades that do not result in physical product delivery are excluded; and ￮ retail sales volumes from markets where Shell operates under trademark licensing agreements. The energy products included in the NCI calculation are oil products (gasoline, diesel, kerosene, fuel oil and LPG), GTL, biofuels, LNG, pipeline gas and power. We review the NCI methodology annually to ensure it reflects changing energy products, relevant data inputs and simplification opportunities. See our NCF methodology documentation on shell.com for further information. NCI baseline and restatement policy We measure our NCI performance compared with a 2016 baseline. The NCI targets and baseline are not adjusted for the impact of acquisitions and divestments, which could have a material impact on meeting the NCI targets. The 2016 baseline may be recalculated as a result of changes in estimates with a cumulative impact of 2% or more on the NCI value in any historically disclosed year. 109 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition continued Scope of NCI 110 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition continued Basis of preparation – absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions We follow the GHG Protocol's Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, which defines three scopes of GHG emissions: ￮ Scope 1: direct GHG emissions; ￮ Scope 2: indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased energy; and ￮ Scope 3: other indirect GHG emissions, including emissions associated with the use of sold products. GHG emissions comprise CO 2 , methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, sulphur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride, with CO 2 and methane being the most significant contributors. Scope 1 and 2 emissions Our GHG inventory is prepared in line with the requirements outlined in the ISO 14064-1:2018 Specification with Guidance at the Organizational Level for Quantification and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Removals and the GHG Protocol's Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. In line with external standards, we aggregate GHG emissions into tonnes CO 2 e by applying global warming potential (GWP) factors to non-CO 2 GHGs. With effect from 2023, these factors are taken from the IPCC's Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) over a 100-year period, as required by the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. GHG emissions are aggregated and consolidated from emission source. We use the operational control boundary for target setting and management of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions because it reflects our ability to directly control operations by applying our own operating policies and standards. Under this approach, in line with the GHG Protocol, we account for 100% of the GHG emissions from assets and activities under our operational control, irrespective of our ownership percentage. Assets under operational control include: ￮ assets wholly owned by Shell; ￮ joint operations where Shell has been designated as the operator under the terms of the joint arrangement; and ￮ assets leased and operated by Shell, such as leased maritime vessels where Shell holds the Safety Management Document of Compliance. Emissions from maritime vessels for which Shell only provides technical services, are not included in our operational control boundary. Scope 1 emissions All significant sources were included in our Scope 1 inventory. These sources comprise: ￮ combustion of carbon-containing fuels in stationary equipment (e.g. boilers and gas turbines) for energy generation; ￮ combustion of carbon-containing fuels in mobile equipment (e.g. trucks, vessels and mobile rigs); ￮ flares; ￮ venting and emissions from industrial processes (e.g. hydrogen plants and catalytic cracking units); and ￮ fugitive emissions, including piping and equipment leaks and non-routine events. Our Scope 1 emissions follow the GHG Protocol guidance. As a result, the following are not included in our reported Scope 1 emissions: ￮ CO 2 emissions from biogenic sources, such as biofuels or biomass (however, methane and nitrous oxide emissions from biogenic sources are included); ￮ captured CO 2 that was subsequently sold or otherwise transferred to third parties; and ￮ CO 2 captured and sequestered using CCS technologies. Scope 1 emissions are presented on a gross basis. Scope 2 emissions All significant sources were included in our Scope 2 inventory. Sources included comprise indirect emissions from purchased and consumed electricity, steam and heat. We did not identify any assets with imported cooling or compressed air used for energy purposes. Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the market- and location-based methods separately as defined by the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. Scope 2 emissions are presented on a gross basis. Carbon credits Our target to halve total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2030 has been set on a net basis, including emissions offset by carbon credits. Baseline and restatement policy We measure our total combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions performance compared with a 2016 baseline, on a net basis. The 2016 baseline may be recalculated if an acquisition or a divestment has an impact of more than 10% on total Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Scope 3 emissions This report provides Scope 3 emissions associated with our energy product sales. Emissions were consolidated using the equity boundary approach. Under this approach, we reported the share of emissions from energy products sold by Shell, including those sourced from third parties. Emissions from Scope 3, Categories 1, 3, 9 and 11, related to the sale of energy products, are the most significant categories for Shell. Emissions from the use of our energy products (Category 11) form the largest component of the indirect Scope 3 emissions we report. As we sell more products than we produce or refine ourselves, the emissions associated with the products we purchase from third parties are also material, as reported under Category 1 for hydrocarbon products, such as oil products, gas and LNG, and Category 3 for power. Although quantitatively less significant, emissions reported under Category 9 are significant to Shell for consistency with the boundaries of our NCI. Other Scope 3 categories have been assessed to be quantitatively and qualitatively insignificant. The calculation of Scope 3, Category 11 emissions uses energy product sales volumes data, disclosed in this report where relevant. These sales volumes exclude certain contracts held for trading purposes and are reported net rather than gross. Business-specific methodologies have been applied to net volumes of oil products, pipeline gas and power. Paper trades that do not result in physical product delivery are excluded. Retail sales volumes from markets where Shell operates under trademark licensing agreements are not included in the sales volumes reported by Shell and are therefore excluded from Scope 3 emissions. Scope 3, Category 1 – purchased goods and services This category includes well-to-tank emissions from purchased third-party unfinished and finished energy products excluding electricity (which is reported separately under Category 3: fuel and energy-related activities and not included in Scope 1 or 2). Emissions from purchased non-energy products are not included. Emissions in this category are estimated using well-to-tank emission factors for crude oil, natural gas, refined oil products (such as gasoline, and diesel), LNG and biofuels. Because the emission factors include transport, we do not estimate emissions from the transport of purchased third-party products separately. 111 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition continued Scope 3, Category 3 – fuel and energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 and 2) This category includes well-to-wire emissions from purchased third-party electricity sold by Shell, calculated using a market-based method. Emissions are not adjusted for any potential double-counting of sold natural gas that may have been used for generating this electricity. This category does not include: ￮ indirect emissions from the generation of imported energy (steam, heat or electricity consumed by our assets) – these emissions are reported separately as Scope 2 emissions; and ￮ well-to-tank emissions from purchased electricity, steam and heat consumed by our assets (i.e. Scope 3 emissions from the extraction, refining and transport of primary fuels before their use in the generation of electricity or steam). Scope 3, Category 9 – downstream transport and distribution This category includes estimated emissions from the transport and distribution of energy products produced or refined by Shell. It does not include the emissions associated with transporting third-party products, which are included in Scope 3, Category 1. To avoid double-counting across emission scopes, emissions from transport activities which are already included in our Scope 1 and 2 equity emissions are excluded from this category. Scope 3, Category 11 – use of sold products This category includes estimated emissions from the use of sold energy products, such as LNG, GTL, pipeline gas, refined oil products and biofuels. These emissions relate to products manufactured and sold by Shell and third-party products sold by Shell. This category does not include non-energy products that may have been combusted during use (e.g. lubricants). Biogenic emissions CO 2 emissions from biogenic sources related to the combustion of sold biofuels are estimated but, in line with GHG Protocol guidance and ISO 14064-1:2018, not included in Scope 3, Category 11. Methane and nitrous oxide emissions from biogenic sources are included in Scope 3, Category 11. It is assumed that the presence of biogenic emissions associated with other Scope 3 categories is negligible. Customer emissions from the use of our oil products Our ambition to reduce customer emissions from the use of our oil products is a subset of Scope 3, Category 11 emissions, focusing on the use of refined oil products. We measure these emission reductions compared with a 2021 baseline. The 2021 baseline may be recalculated in the event of a revision of our sales of oil products or in the event of other changes to emission factors subject to a 2% cumulative threshold. Metrics and targets in respect of climate-related environmental risks We monitor physical risk exposures, whether climate-related or not, water use, emissions to air and water, biodiversity and waste generated from our operations. Where relevant, we may manage our environmental performance by establishing specific targets. See "Environment" on pages 135-137. Targets used by Shell to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets Our response to the energy transition risk focuses on decarbonising our value chain. This section sets out our climate targets, which are focused on reducing our NCI and our absolute emissions, as presented on pages 113-114. Shell's material climate-related risks and opportunities are set out in the "Climate-related risks and opportunities identified by Shell over the short, medium and long term" section on pages 92-96. We have set intensity targets and absolute targets and an ambition over the short, medium and long term to track our performance over time (as summarised below). The targets are forward-looking targets based on management's current expectations and certain material assumptions and, accordingly, involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied herein. We believe that the total net absolute emissions included in our NCI peaked in 2018 at 1.7 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (GtCO 2 e). We are seeking to reduce emissions from our own operations, including the production of oil and gas. More than 90% of the total emissions we include within our NCI boundary are indirect emissions associated with the purchase of third-party products and with the end-use emissions of energy products we sell, so we are also working with our customers to support them in transitioning to low-carbon products and services. In October 2021, we set targets to: ￮ reduce Scope 1 and 2 absolute emissions from assets and activities under our operational control (including divestments) by 50% by 2030 compared with the 2016 baseline, on a net basis; ￮ maintain methane emissions intensity for operated oil and gas assets below 0.2% and achieve near-zero methane emissions intensity by 2030; and ￮ eliminate routine flaring from our upstream-operated assets by 2025. In March 2024, we clarified that this target was subject to the completion of the sale of SPDC. 112 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition continued In March 2024, we set revised targets to reduce the NCI of the energy products we sell by 9-13% by 2025, 15-20% by 2030 and 100% by 2050, compared with a 2016 baseline. The NCI metric measures the pace of transition by tracking our progress in reducing the overall carbon intensity of the energy products sold by Shell. NCI measures emissions associated with each unit of energy we sell, compared with a 2016 baseline. It reflects changes in sales of oil and gas products, and changes in sales of low-carbon products, such as biofuels and renewable electricity. Unlike Scope 1 and 2 emissions, reducing the NCI of the products we sell requires action by both Shell and our customers, with the support of governments and policymakers to create the right conditions for change. In March 2024, we set an ambition to reduce customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) by 15-20% by 2030 compared with 2021 [A]. This level of ambition is in line with the EU's climate goals in the transport sector, which are among the most progressive in the world. Achieving this ambition means reducing sales of oil products compared with our 2021 baseline, as we support customers to move to electric mobility and low-carbon fuels, such as biofuels. [A] Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) were 517 million tonnes CO 2 e in 2023 and 569 million tonnes CO 2 e in 2021. In the short and medium term, we have set climate targets for emissions that we are able to control, namely our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, methane emissions and flaring. We have also set climate-related targets and an ambition for emissions that are outside our control. These include our ambition to reduce the Scope 3, Category 11 customer emissions from the use of our oil products, and our target to reduce the NCI of the energy products we sell. Setting targets for NCI Shell's target is to become a net-zero emissions energy business by 2050. We also have short-, medium- and long-term targets to reduce the carbon intensity of the energy products we sell, measured using our NCI metric. We believe these targets are aligned with the more ambitious goal of the Paris Agreement, which is to limit the rise in global average temperature this century to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. There is no established standard for aligning an energy supplier's decarbonisation targets within this goal. For this reason, we have defined our NCI target using 1.5°C scenarios developed for the IPCC's AR6. We start with the complete set of 1.5°C scenarios and then exclude scenarios which are too reliant on carbon removals or the use of bioenergy before removing outliers. We then calculate an emissions intensity for each scenario which is comparable to our own NCI. Finally, we produce a 1.5°C pathway based on the reductions in emissions intensity over time. We have chosen to use a range instead of any individual scenario to better reflect the uncertainty of the energy transition. We believe that using this pathway to set our targets demonstrates that they are aligned with the more ambitious 1.5°C goal of the Paris Agreement. This is illustrated in the chart below. We also believe that the pace of change will vary around the world by region and by sector, taking into consideration the time needed for energy users to invest in large-scale equipment and the energy infrastructure changes needed for Shell to deliver more low- and zero-carbon energy. Shell's NCI targets Progress towards our Scope 1 and 2 target The chart below shows our progress since 2016 in reducing our Scope 1 and 2 emissions and gives an indication of how we expect to achieve our target in 2030. The actions we take to achieve our target will depend on the evolution of our asset portfolio and the continued development of technologies which reduce carbon emissions. We expect that, on a net portfolio basis, reductions predominantly from abatement projects, including CCS and electrification, may outweigh increases in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions from new investments between 2025 and 2030. Our investments in producing low-carbon energy will increase our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, while reducing the NCI of the products we sell. Subsequent reductions in our emissions are reflected in the mechanisms outlined below and reflect an expected path to meeting our target by 2030. To decarbonise our operations, we are focusing on: ￮ using more renewable electricity to power our operations; ￮ developing CCS for some of our facilities; ￮ improving the energy efficiency of our operations; and ￮ making portfolio changes such as acquisitions and investments in low-carbon intensity projects, decommissioning facilities and divesting assets, while sustaining our oil production. If required, we may choose to use high-quality carbon credits to offset any remaining emissions from our operations, in line with the carbon mitigation hierarchy of avoid, reduce and compensate. 113 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition continued Working to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions Scope 1 and 2 emissions in million tonnes CO 2 e [A] [B] [A] The 2016 baseline may be recalculated if an acquisition or a divestment has an impact of more than 10% on total Scope 1 and 2 emissions. [B] Operational control boundary and presented on a net basis (i.e. inclusive of any use of carbon credits). [C] Including compliance and voluntary carbon credits as required. Progress towards our NCI target Unlike Scope 1 and 2 emissions, reducing the NCI of the products we sell requires action by both Shell and our customers, with the support of governments and policymakers to create the right conditions for change. The biggest driver for reducing our NCI is increasing the sales of and demand for low-carbon energy. The chart below illustrates how changes in the volume of products and services we sell could result in NCI reductions towards 2030. The change in our sales of these products and services will also reflect the development and adoption of new technologies and infrastructure, and the adoption of public policies designed to encourage the energy transition. Working to reduce our NCI NCI in gCO 2 e/MJ [A] [A] Grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per megajoule. [B] Expected growth of our integrated power business and increasing sales of renewable power. [C] Effect of proportionally lower sales of oil products and higher sales of natural gas and LNG. Emissions associated with gas and LNG are lower than those of oil products. [D] Sales of low-carbon fuels, such as biofuels, and development of hydrogen. [E] CCS reduces carbon emissions by capturing them at source. [F] Can be used to offset remaining carbon emissions, particularly in hard-to-abate sectors such as aviation and industries including cement and steel. 114 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition continued Linking Shell's emissions targets to remuneration We have established remuneration structures to support us in reducing our operational emissions and to support customers in reducing their emissions. The majority of employees participate in the discretionary annual bonus arrangements, which are based on the Group scorecard. Our annual bonus scorecard and Performance Share Awards (PSA) include "Shell's journey in the energy transition" performance metrics, which are designed to align with Shell's Operating Plan and longer-term strategic ambitions. PSA will be awarded to Executive Directors and around 3,000 other employees across the Group. See "Directors' Remuneration Report" on pages 169-175. Energy transition performance condition and the vesting of the 2023 LTIP and PSP awards For 2023 share awards, assessment of performance is based on Net Carbon Intensity (NCI) reduction against the 2016 base year and supporting strategic themes of reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions; building a renewable power business; growing new low-carbon energy offerings; and developing emission sinks and offsets. Overall, it was determined that the energy transition performance condition (accounting for 25% of the LTIP award and 12.5% of the PSP award) should vest at 120% of target. See "2023 share award energy transition performance condition: outcome" on pages 182-184 for more information. See "Annual Report on Remuneration" on pages 176-192. Energy transition performance condition in the 2025 PSA For the 2025 PSA, the Shell's journey in the energy transition performance condition had a weighting of 25%. Determination of the extent to which awards will vest will be based on its holistic assessment of progress towards reducing emissions from our operations and supporting our customers to reduce their emissions. Energy transition performance condition for 2026 PSA For the 2026 PSA, the Shell's journey in the energy transition performance condition has a weighting of 20% and retains the same performance assessment framework as for 2025. The REMCO's determination of the vesting outcome will be based on its holistic assessment of progress towards reducing emissions from our operations and supporting our customers to reduce their emissions. This will be based on our climate-related targets for our own operations as follows: ￮ halving Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030 under operational control on a net basis (2016 baseline); and ￮ maintaining methane emissions intensity below 0.2% and achieving near-zero methane emissions intensity by 2030. The REMCO will also take account of progress in developments that support the energy transition to 2030 and beyond, such as the development of our Power business (including renewables), lower carbon intensity LNG production using, for example, CCS and renewable power, and low-carbon solutions, such as biofuels, electric vehicle charging, hydrogen and CCS. The REMCO will take into account progress towards achieving a 15-20% reduction in NCI by 2030 (2016 baseline), a 15-20% reduction in customer emissions from the use of our oil products by 2030 (2021 baseline) [A], as well as Shell's wider performance in accelerating the energy transition, e.g. demonstrating leadership and advocacy in standard setting, alongside any other factors that the REMCO considers relevant. [A] This ambition was set in March 2024. Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) were 517 million tonnes CO 2 e in 2023 and 569 million tonnes CO 2 e in 2021. See "Annual Report on Remuneration" on page 191 for more information on the proposed performance framework. Climate-related targets in the annual bonus scorecard Delivering on our climate-related targets and ambition is part of the annual bonus scorecard, which helps determine annual performance bonus outcomes for senior management and the majority of Shell's employees. The measures included in the annual bonus scorecard are shown in the table below. 2025 scorecard: Shell's journey in the energy transition 2025 Target 2025 Performance 2025 Status LNG volumes [A] million tonnes per annum 27.5 28.4 Above target Reducing operational emissions thousand tonnes of CO 2 e 1,050 1,238 Above target Supporting customer decarbonisation [B] Number of EV charge points 80,000 83,493 Above target [A] Equity liquefaction. [B] For the purpose of the scorecard, the number of electric vehicle (EV) charge points in the supporting customer decarbonisation metric was adjusted to exclude 4,407 electric vehicle charge points divested effective January 2, 2026 The Shell's journey in the energy transition metric reflects progress on our longer-term strategic ambitions. The overall score was above target for the year. LNG volumes [B]: Performance is measured based on liquefaction volumes. Our score for LNG liquefaction volumes in 2025 reflects strong operational performance across most Integrated Gas assets and a maintenance programme with no major delays. [B] Equity liquefaction. Reducing operational emissions: We achieved a significant reduction in operational emissions from abatement, renewable energy, and permanent shutdowns or conversions ("right-sizing"). The main contributors were multiple transformation projects in Rheinland in Germany (Chemicals and Products), compressor electrification in Canada (Integrated Gas) and catalyst improvements in Qatar (Integrated Gas). Supporting customer decarbonisation: We have continued to expand our network of electric vehicle charge points, mainly driven by growth in China and Ubitricity's portfolio. The business is focused on building a leaner, more profitable e-Mobility network to deliver long-term success. 2026 scorecard: Shell's journey in the energy transition Given the evolution of the business, and the shift in focus to value over volume, the supporting customer decarbonisation metric will move from assessing the number of electric vehicle charge points to electric vehicle charging gross margin growth. See "Annual Report on Remuneration" on page 180. 115 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions Other regulatory disclosures GHG emissions and energy consumption data – information provided in accordance with UK regulations Data in this section are consolidated using the operational control approach. Under this approach, we account for 100% of the GHG emissions and energy consumption in respect of activities where we are the operator, irrespective of our ownership percentage. Reporting on this operational control basis differs from that applied for financial reporting purposes in the "Consolidated Financial Statements". See "Basis of preparation – absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions" on page 111. GHG emissions in million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent (operational control boundary) 2025 2024 2023 Scope 1 emissions (gross) [A] Shell 46 50 50 UK including offshore area 1.6 1.6 1.7 Scope 2 emissions (gross) Market-based [B] Shell 7 8 7 UK including offshore area 0.06 — — Location-based [C] Shell 7 8 8 UK including offshore area 0.04 0.04 0.04 Shell GHG intensity in tonnes per tonne Shell GHG intensity [D] 0.27 0.27 0.27 [A] Emissions from the combustion of fuels and the operation of our facilities, calculated using global warming potential (GWP) factors from the IPCC's Fifth Assessment Report. [B] Emissions from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for our own use globally, calculated using a market-based method as defined by the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. [C] Emissions from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling for our own use, calculated using a location-based method as defined by the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. [D] In tonnes of total Scope 1 and 2 gross emissions per tonne of crude oil and feedstocks processed and petrochemicals produced in downstream manufacturing and oil and gas available for sale, LNG and GTL production in Integrated Gas and Upstream. Data inputs used in the calculation of Shell's GHG intensity are as follows: Inputs used for calculating Shell's GHG emissions intensity (operational control boundary) 2025 2024 2023 A Scope 1 emissions (gross) [A] 46 50 50 B Scope 2 emissions (gross) [A] 7 8 7 C=A+B Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions (gross) [A] 53 58 57 D Total oil and gas production available for sale [B] 101 114 111 E Refinery crude and feedstock processed [B] 54 60 62 F Chemicals total production [B] 21 25 21 G LNG production [B] 11 12 10 H GTL production [B] 7 6 6 I=D+E+F+G+H Total Upstream, Integrated Gas and Downstream activity [B] [C] 193 217 210 J=C/I Shell GHG intensity [D] 0.27 0.27 0.27 [A] In million tonnes CO 2 equivalent. [B] In million metric tonnes of production. The production data in this table (operational control basis) are not directly comparable with the production data reported elsewhere in this Report (reflecting the sum of production under financial control and share of joint ventures and associates). [C] Split may not add up to the total due to rounding. [D] In tonnes of CO 2 equivalent per tonne of production. Energy use in our operations The energy consumption data provided below comprise own energy, generated and consumed by our facilities, and energy purchased (electricity, steam and heat) by our facilities for our use. Energy consumption data reflect primary (thermal) energy (including the energy content of fuels used to generate electricity, steam, heat and mechanical energy). This includes energy from renewable and non-renewable sources. Own energy generated is calculated by multiplying the volumes of fuels consumed for energy purposes by their respective lower heating values. Own energy generated that is exported to third-party assets or to the power grid is excluded. Thermal energy for purchased and consumed electricity is calculated using actual electricity purchased multiplied by country-specific electricity generation efficiency factors from International Energy Agency (IEA) statistics. Thermal energy for purchased and consumed steam or heat is calculated from actual steam or heat purchased multiplied by a supplier-specific conversion efficiency, or a generic efficiency factor where supplier-specific data are not available. 116 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Less emissions | Other regulatory disclosures continued Our energy consumption decreased from 212 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) in 2024 to 189 billion kWh in 2025. Energy consumption in billion kWh 2025 2024 2023 Own energy generated and consumed Shell 159 179 174 UK including offshore area 6.1 6.2 6.1 Purchased and consumed energy Shell 30 33 31 UK including offshore area 0.3 0.2 0.2 Energy consumption Shell 189 212 205 UK including offshore area 6.4 6.4 6.3 In 2025, we implemented a variety of measures to reduce the energy use and increase the energy efficiency of our operations. Examples of these are listed below (with estimated total savings of around 830 million kWh in 2025): ￮ At our GTL asset in Qatar: improvements to catalyst performance which resulted in reduced generation of off-gas leading to lower energy consumption. ￮ At our Prelude site in Australia: implementation of advanced process control for liquefaction. ￮ At our upstream operations in the UK: reduction of the glycol recirculation rate while still meeting dewpoint specification on an offshore platform. ￮ At our Sarawak and Sabah assets in Malaysia: installation of Electronic Fuel Monitoring Systems on standby vessels improving energy efficiency and reducing fuel consumption. ￮ At our Shell MDS site in Malaysia: project to use off-gas previously flared thereby reducing natural gas consumption. ￮ At our Rheinland site in Germany: optimization of the heater gas control system allowing the switch from natural gas to heating gas. Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) and the EU Taxonomy Regulation The EU Taxonomy Regulation is a classification system for determining when an economic activity can be considered environmentally sustainable according to EU standards. It aims to encourage investment in a low-carbon economy by creating common definitions of sustainability and mandatory disclosures to help investors make informed decisions. In anticipation of the transposition by the Netherlands of the EU CSRD into national law, Shell's Sustainability Statements for the year ended December 31, 2025 are presented on a voluntary basis. Shell plc will come fully into scope of the EU Taxonomy Regulation upon the transposition of the CSRD by the Netherlands into law. The CSRD extends the EU Taxonomy Regulation's reporting obligations to third-country issuers that are listed on European exchanges. See "EU Taxonomy disclosure" on pages 310-316. 117 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year Our foundations We care about each other, our work, and about doing business the right way. Our core values of honesty, integrity and respect for people, and our focus on safety, people and sustainability, form the foundations of Shell. We are guided by the Shell General Business Principles and our Code of Conduct. Our approach to sustainability takes into account the impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate, environment, safety, ethics, people and communities. Safety is central to what we do, reflected in our Goal Zero ambition to do no harm to people and to have no leaks across our operations. Our people are key to our success and we expect everyone who works for us to behave according to our values. As well as providing vital energy, our activities contribute to economies and communities through job creation, spending on goods and services, and through the payment of taxes and royalties to governments. We believe business succeeds only when it respects the environment and the communities within which it works. We seek to manage our impact on communities, while working to protect the environment, increase reuse and recycling, support biodiversity and use resources efficiently. 119 Our approach to sustainability 126 Safety 129 Our people 133 Our contribution to society 135 Environment 138 Living by our values 118 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations Our approach to sustainability For almost three decades, our commitment to contribute to sustainable development has been part of the Shell General Business Principles. We embed this commitment into our business processes and decision-making, supported by governance structures, policies and operating standards. Our approach to sustainability takes into account the impacts, risks and opportunities related to climate, environment, safety, ethics, people and communities. This is underpinned by the Shell Commitment and Policy on Health, Security, Safety, the Environment and Social Performance (HSSE & SP), and our Safety, Environment and Asset Management (SEAM) Standards, which are part of the Shell Performance Framework. In anticipation of the transposition by the Netherlands of the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) into national law, Shell's Sustainability Statements for the year ended December 31, 2025 are presented on a voluntary basis. The CSRD requires certain European and non-European companies (including Shell plc due to its listing on Euronext Amsterdam) to make disclosures on environmental, social and governance topics in accordance with reporting standards set out in the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS). Photo: Executive Committee and Board visit to Australia, 2025. Governance Board oversight of sustainability including climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities Our governance framework is designed to effectively support our strategy, which is to deliver more value with less emissions, underpinned by our focus on safety, people and sustainability. See "Our strategy" on pages 20-22. We describe Shell's overall governance framework on pages 149-153 and provide information on the roles of the Board of Directors, Board Committees and the Executive Committee (EC). The Board has primary oversight of the delivery of Shell's strategy and monitors performance against our longer-term business targets. This includes the management of sustainability-related impacts, risks and opportunities. The Board periodically reviews our energy transition plans and oversees their implementation and delivery. In March 2024, we published our Energy Transition Strategy 2024, as endorsed by the Board, which included our climate-related targets and ambition. At Capital Markets Day in March 2025, we maintained our commitment to deliver more value with less emissions, with no changes to our climate-related targets and ambition. The progress on these climate-related targets and ambition can be found in "Our climate-related metrics, targets and ambition" on pages 104-115. In 2025, the Board considered sustainability-related matters throughout the year, such as the assessment of sustainability-related risks and the effectiveness of corresponding risk management activities. The Board also challenged and endorsed the operating plan, with consideration of major capital expenditures, acquisitions and divestments. In 2025, the Board convened 10 times and continued to oversee our strategy and sustainability initiatives, including at the Board offsite days in June 2025. The nature of topics discussed by the Board in 2025 can be found in "Board activities" on page 148. A full description of sustainability-related principal risks can be found in the "Risk factors" on pages 23-32. 119 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Our approach to sustainability continued Board committees The Board is supported by four standing committees: the Sustainability Committee (SUSCO), the Remuneration Committee (REMCO), the Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) and the Nomination and Succession Committee (NOMCO). Sustainability-related matters are considered by the Board or the relevant committee, as appropriate. Committees, comprising Non-executive Directors, provide regular updates to the Board, including from committee meetings and stakeholder engagements. The SUSCO assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities by providing oversight of emerging trends related to disclosed sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities, excluding carbon and safety (which remain matters for the Board). The SUSCO also performs such further functions related to sustainability, including undertaking deep dives on sustainability topics, as the Board and Committee may agree. The SUSCO met four times in 2025, with sustainability-related matters discussed at each meeting. Details on focus areas and meetings in 2025 can be found in the SUSCO report on pages 157-158. The REMCO develops the remuneration policy and schemes for Executive Directors, EC members and the majority of Shell's employees. It also sets performance conditions designed to challenge and support the EC in meeting our strategy of more value with less emissions, underpinned by our focus on safety, people and sustainability. The REMCO met six times in 2025, with sustainability-related matters relevant to remuneration being regularly addressed. Details of the REMCO's focus areas and meetings in 2025 can be found in the Directors' Remuneration Report on pages 169-175. The NOMCO leads the process for appointments to the Board and Senior Management and oversees the development of a diverse succession line of candidates. The NOMCO also reviews the Company's policy, targets and strategy on diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I), and monitors the effectiveness of these initiatives. The NOMCO met four times in 2025, with sustainability-related matters regularly addressed. Details on the NOMCO's focus areas and meetings in 2025 can be found in the NOMCO report on pages 154-156. The ARC assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in areas such as the effectiveness of our risk management and internal control framework. The ARC also provides oversight in respect of material reporting disclosures in the Company's annual reports, half-yearly reports and quarterly results releases. Significant issues identified by the business or functional owners are escalated to and reviewed by the ARC as required. The ARC met seven times in 2025, with sustainability-related matters regularly addressed. Details on the ARC's focus areas and meetings in 2025 can be found in the ARC report on pages 159-168. Performance and remuneration Our remuneration schemes, including the annual bonus and long-term incentive awards, are designed to support Shell in achieving our strategy. Almost all employees participate in the annual bonus scheme. Executive Directors, senior executives and certain key employees participate in the long-term incentive awards, which aim to retain and ensure recipients have a greater investment in Shell's future. In respect of 2025 outcomes, Shell's safety and energy-transition-related performance metrics each form 15% of the annual bonus scorecard. A metric for "Shell's journey in the energy transition" forms 25% of the long-term incentive awards for Executive Directors and senior executives and 12.5% for all other employees. The remuneration schemes are all linked to sustainability elements, including climate and safety. The Directors' Remuneration Report provides further details on key sustainability-related performance indicators. Supporting governance committees There are three key supporting management committees, with representatives from across Shell, which play a critical role in driving sustainability-related elements of our strategy. These committees each have direct lines of reporting to the Board and its committees. ￮ The Strategy and Investment Committee (SIC) was established in June 2025 and supersedes the Capital Investment Committee. The SIC is the decision forum for material capital investment decisions with the aim of optimising capital allocation and ensuring active stewardship of the portfolio in service of delivering our strategy. The SIC reviews each investment opportunity that, due to its size or risk profile, is subject to approval by the CEO or the Board. These reviews ensure that risk-reward trade-offs and other defined criteria (including carbon emissions impacts) are embedded in investment decision-making. This committee is made up of senior executives, including the CEO, CFO and individual business presidents. ￮ The Carbon Reporting Committee (CRC) is sponsored by the CFO and includes senior management representatives focusing on climate-related matters from across the businesses and key functions such as Safety, Environment and Asset Management (SEAM), Finance, Legal, Information Technology and Strategy. The CRC is responsible at the Group level for the Carbon Reporting Control Framework, the calculation methodologies and reporting of GHG emissions metrics, and the review and approval of external GHG-related disclosures to ensure compliance. ￮ The Sustainability Management Committee (SMC) is sponsored by the CFO and includes senior management representatives with exposure to material sustainability areas from the businesses and functions, including Supply Chain, Finance, Legal and Human Resources. The SMC aims to provide an integrated approach to sustainability by addressing cross-business risks and dilemmas, and driving the co-ordination, simplification and performance improvement of environment and people sustainability topics, focusing on regulatory compliance and value protection and creation. The SMC also maintains a forward view on emerging themes to ensure Shell's future competitiveness and resilience through the energy transition. In addition to these committees, our network of country chairs supports the delivery of Shell's objectives and the operating plan (including sustainability-related initiatives) and supports preserving integrated country value with a long-term perspective. They lead Shell's reputation management, policy and advocacy ambitions in country, and ensure an integrated, local stakeholder engagement plan is maintained and implemented. Business assurance Each EC member must submit an annual assurance letter to the CEO that their business or function's activities have been conducted in accordance with the requirements set out in our Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP and our SEAM Standards. This assurance includes an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls in managing sustainability-related risks. Independent assurance Shell Internal Audit and Investigations (SIAI) provides independent assurance of sustainability-related risks as part of its broader mandate and advises management and the Board on the effectiveness of internal controls. For further information, see "Internal Audit" on page 165. 120 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Our approach to sustainability continued Management's role in assessing and managing sustainability including climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities Sustainability including climate governance [A] President, Projects & Technology was responsible for SEAM Standards, supply chain, major projects and technology development in 2025 and up to the leave date of February 28, 2026. 121 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Our approach to sustainability continued Processes by which management is informed about sustainability including climate-related issues We have several processes to help ensure that management teams can effectively monitor and manage sustainability matters. Our response to the evolving risk outlook requires transparency and clarity around our plans and actions to achieve our sustainability targets. We have established a number of policies, standards, frameworks, internal forums and capability development programmes related to sustainability, climate change and the energy transition. These are employed at all levels of the organisation and seek to monitor, manage and review sustainability issues. Each business and function regularly reviews its risk profile, risk responses and assurance activities throughout the year to ensure sustainability-related risks are effectively addressed and managed. These reviews and insights are also used to provide management with regular updates on the operational management of sustainability and to help us to update our plans and guide our day-to-day operational decisions and our risk response plans. Policies and standards Our commitment to contribute to sustainable development has been part of the Shell General Business Principles (SGBP) since 1997. These principles are supported by our Code of Conduct [A], which describes the behaviours expected of our employees with regard to sustainability-related matters including HSSE & SP, human rights and equal opportunities. [A] In January 2026, we introduced the refreshed Code of Conduct. The Shell Performance Framework (SPF) is the overarching framework adopted by Shell to deliver on its strategy and business objectives. It applies to all Shell companies and provides a consistent approach for how each company in Shell operates. It includes our risk management and internal control framework to support adherence to the SGBP and Code of Conduct. See "Living by our values" on pages 138-139 and "Shell Performance Framework" on page 151. Shell's policies and standards aligned with the Shell Performance Framework (SPF) Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP The Shell Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP is a set of core principles intended to ensure the health and safety of our workforce, minimise environmental impact, respect our neighbours and contribute to sustainable development. SEAM Standards We implement the Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP through a set of five standards under the SPF collectively referred to as the Safety, Environment and Asset Management (SEAM) Standards. The SEAM Standards require the businesses, projects and assets we operate to identify and manage impacts, risks and opportunities so their activities can be carried out in a safe, environmentally responsible and consistent way. We aim to comply with all regulations and follow the requirements set out in our SEAM Standards to develop suitable governance structures and mitigation strategies designed to prevent HSSE risks from materialising. We use metrics and assurance processes to give us confidence that our systems and processes are working as intended and highlight areas of risk before incidents happen. Further, if an HSSE risk materialises, we aim to ensure that we avoid the worst possible consequences and have ways to remediate any environmental damage. For example, our standards describe the key controls required to ensure safe production and equipment care, and the types of skills and training that are required for relevant employees. They also describe emergency response plans to be followed should an incident occur. Each project, asset or business is accountable to assess which mandatory requirements are relevant based on their objectives, risk profile and activities, and to apply these via their local management system. The requirements are designed to be outcome-based -- meaning they define the desired results and allow the business to determine a fit-for-purpose process to achieve them. They are supported by practice documents, which share best practices for implementation, as well as assurance protocols to assist in testing the health of controls. 122 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Our approach to sustainability continued The requirements align with industry standards where practicable. Where applicable, we follow the most stringent of either our SEAM Standards or local regulations. In some cases, where no local regulation exists, our standards set mandatory requirements based on internationally accepted standards or practices. Requests for exceptions from the SEAM Standards must be reviewed and advised on by subject matter experts and authorised by a senior executive for the relevant business, asset or function. Permanent exceptions are reviewed on an annual basis and are subject to conditions. The five SEAM Standards are described below. SEAM Standards HSSE & SP and Asset Management Foundations This standard includes requirements intended to manage the common elements of our processes and management systems. These include our assurance processes, HSSE & SP risk management practices, impact assessment, contractor HSSE management, performance monitoring and reporting, and learning and improvement, among others. Carbon, Environment, Social Performance, Product Stewardship and Quality This standard includes managing our decarbonisation targets, protecting biodiversity, preserving water quality, improving air quality and increasing circularity. It also covers the mitigation of social impacts arising from our business activities and management of any hazards associated with the products we make, buy, sell or handle. See "Less emissions" on pages 89-117, "Our contribution to society" on pages 133-134 and "Environment" on pages 135-137. Workplace Health, Safety, and Security This standard is about protecting workers involved in our activities from potential health and safety hazards that may cause harm to them or others. It includes worker welfare and labour rights, and contains requirements intended to protect our people and assets from security threats. Process Safety and Asset Management This standard is about keeping hazardous substances contained in wells, pipes, tanks and vessels. In the SEAM Standards, we have integrated Asset Management work processes with Asset Integrity-Process Safety Management, which streamlines requirements and recognises the alignment of operating safely and optimising production in our assets. Transport Safety This standard is about reducing the safety risks posed during transport of people, products and materials by road, rail, sea or air. See "Safety" on pages 126-128. 123 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Our approach to sustainability continued Sustainability including climate impact, risk and opportunity management We use two key processes for assessing and managing sustainability including climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities — Impact Assessment and the Hazards and Effects Management Process (HEMP). These are covered in the HSSE & SP and Asset Management Foundations Standard in alignment with our broader risk management practice in the SPF. For more information on our risk management processes, see "Risk management" on page 31. When planning projects, we conduct impact assessments, which help us to identify and assess a project's potential impact on the environment, people and communities. Once identified, we apply a mitigation hierarchy, which is a sequence of actions to manage potential risks. For example, in a biodiversity context, we seek to avoid, minimise, restore and offset. HEMP is applied to identify, assess and manage HSSE & SP risks in our projects and operations. This systemic approach starts with the identification of potential hazards (such as working at heights) and evaluation of their likelihood and potential impact. We then implement controls (such as fall protection) to reduce the risks to as low as reasonably practicable (ALARP). In doing this, we apply the hierarchy of controls, which prioritises the elimination, substitution and isolation of hazards, before implementing engineered safeguards, administrative controls and personal protective equipment. We monitor the effectiveness of these controls via regular assurance activities. Non-operated ventures More than half of Shell's joint ventures are not operated by Shell. As per our SGBP, Commitment and Policy on HSSE & SP and our joint-venture requirements in the HSSE & SP and Asset Management Foundations Standard, we request non-operated ventures (NOV) to apply policies and principles materially equivalent to our own and, in relation to particular (higher-impact) risks, implement materially equivalent standards or standards acceptable to us. We do not have direct control over how these ventures embed sustainability in their operations, but we do seek to influence and offer support. We periodically evaluate sustainability, including climate-related impacts, risks and opportunities, within our NOVs, and if an NOV does not meet our expectations, we seek to influence it to implement performance improvement plans. Sustainability including climate through the life cycle Our principles, policies and standards regarding sustainability, including climate, extend across the entire lifespan of a project or the facility -- from initial design and construction or acquisition to operation over many years and, finally, divestment or decommissioning. Acquisitions and divestments Shell considers several factors, including regulations, sustainability and alignment with our strategy, in our review of potential new investment opportunities and divesting from existing opportunities. Sustainability factors, including emissions, are considered during the due diligence process for material acquisitions and divestments. Before acquiring or divesting a business, we take care to assess the counterparty's financial strength; operating capabilities; policies governing HSSE & SP; ethics and compliance; and, where relevant, its approach to social performance. For material divestment proposals, such reviews allow us to assess the potential purchaser's capability to manage the assets and surrounding environment in accordance with regulatory requirements and industry best practices, as well as the transition of sustainability-related responsibilities and commitments, as appropriate. Where applicable, we also share our existing emissions reduction plans in relation to compliance with regulations and commitments for the purchaser's consideration. Decommissioning and restoration Decommissioning is part of the normal life cycle of every asset. We aim to decommission assets, including wells, in a safe, cost-effective and environmentally responsible manner while meeting regulatory requirements. This includes restoring the sites of assets in line with relevant legislation, while taking our own environmental standards into account. We seek to reuse, repurpose and recycle materials in decommissioning. Current and non-current decommissioning liabilities and other provisions are accounted for on our balance sheet. See Note 25 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 275. Working with others Shell understands the need to work with others to achieve our commercial, environmental and social goals. We engage with local communities and other stakeholders in all our activities. We listen to their ideas and the concerns they might have so these can be addressed in the design and operation of our assets. Shell participates in external collaborations, industry associations and partnerships. We do this in compliance with antitrust rules and regulations. These engagements are a proven way to learn and share best practices, achieve specific objectives and build trust with the many different stakeholders who have an interest in Shell. Our key sustainability, including climate, partnerships include the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Ipieca (the global oil and gas industry association for advancing environmental and social performance across the energy transition), United Nations Global Compact, Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). These organisations, and many others, help inform our thinking on sustainability including climate-related risks, opportunities and good practices. 124 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Our approach to sustainability continued Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement The table below constitutes Shell's Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement, produced to comply with sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006 (as amended by The Companies (Strategic Report) (Climate-related Financial Disclosure) Regulations 2022). Non-Financial and Sustainability Information Statement Reporting requirement Where to read more in this Report Page Business model Our strategy 20 Non-financial KPIs Performance indicators 33 Environmental matters Less emissions Environment 89 135 Sustainability and climate change and TCFD disclosures Less emissions 89 Employees Our people Directors' Remuneration Report 129 169 Social matters Our contribution to society 133 Respect for human rights Our contribution to society 133 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters Living by our values 138 Risk Risk management and risk factors Less emissions Audit and Risk Committee Report 23 89 159 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Shell supports the recommendations of the TCFD. In accordance with the UK Listing Rule 6.6.6R, and set out below, we report our climate-related financial disclosures consistent with all the TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures [A]. We also consider relevant supplemental guidance including, for example, the TCFD's additional guidance "Implementing the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures" (also known as the 2021 TCFD Annex) published in October 2021 by the TCFD. We continue to align and enhance our climate-related disclosures. TCFD disclosures index TCFD Pillars TCFD Recommended Disclosures Reference Governance Describe the board's oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities Board oversight of sustainability including climate-related risks and opportunities is described on page 119. Describe management's role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities Management's role in assessing and managing sustainability including climate-related risks and opportunities is described on page 121. Strategy Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term See page 92. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation's business, strategy, and financial planning See page 97. Describe the resilience of the organisation's strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario See page 98. Risk Management Describe the organisation's processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks Descriptions of the company's processes used to identify and assess risks, including climate-related risks, can be found on page 31 under the paragraphs "Risk identification" and "Risk assessment". Describe the organisation's processes for managing climate-related risks Descriptions of the company's processes used to manage risks, including climate-related risks, are described on page 31 under the paragraphs "Risk Response" and "Management and Board risk reviews". Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation's overall risk management Our climate-related risk management process follows the approach set out by the Shell Performance Framework, ensuring that it is integrated into the Company's overall risk management processes, and is described on page 31 in the section "Risk Management". Metrics and Targets Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk-management process See page 105. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks See page 105. Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets See page 112. Information that supports TCFD disclosures is indicated with . [A] By this we mean the four recommendations and the 11 recommended disclosures set out in Figure 4 of Section C of the report titled "Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures" published in June 2017 by the TCFD. 125 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations Safety As we implement our strategy, we will continue to focus on achieving our Goal Zero ambition: to do no harm to people and to have no leaks across operations. This goal lies at the very heart of our plans and our activities. The nature of our operations exposes us to a wide range of safety risks. We plan and execute our work with the aim of preventing harm to people or leaks to the environment and to be prepared to respond if something goes wrong. We seek to improve safety by focusing on the three areas where the safety risks associated with our activities are highest: personal safety, process safety and transport safety. We strive to reduce risks and to minimise the potential impact of any incident. We place a particular emphasis on the risks that could lead to the most serious consequences if they materialise. We have adopted the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) Human Performance Principles, which is the industry standard for managing human performance to improve safety and productivity. Shell people are encouraged to apply a learner mindset, which embodies the belief that we can always improve, enhance individual capabilities, learn from mistakes and successes, and speak up freely without repercussions. In practice, our approach to safety is about enhancing how we prepare for and conduct high-risk activities by: ￮ improving our preparation and execution of front-line work, building an environment of trust and learning; ￮ moving to industry-wide tools so that Shell and contractors work on the same basis to manage risks; and ￮ using technology to reduce exposure and identify conditions that could lead to serious incidents. It is also about capturing more insights by: ￮ focusing on eliminating fatality and permanent impairment (FPI) incidents and learning from high-potential incidents where the most serious consequences that could have led to an FPI did not materialise; ￮ focusing on learning from losses or potential losses of containment, and on any degradation of barriers designed to prevent or minimise the consequences of leaks; ￮ capturing underlying causes through incident investigations; and ￮ embedding lessons learned in our training and instructions for future work. Our approach is governed by our Safety, Environment and Asset Management (SEAM) Standards, which set out our detailed requirements for personal, process and transport safety. See page 122 of "Our approach to sustainability". Assurance activities play a key role for Shell in providing real-time feedback concerning the health of critical human and technical safeguards that help prevent a safety incident. Our assurance activities aim to verify the design and functioning of controls, validate the overall efficiency of risk management and highlight areas for improvement. We report data in this section on a 100% basis for companies and joint ventures in which Shell is the operator, unless stated otherwise. Technology and safety We are using digitalisation and AI to gather and process data from our operations and to improve analysis and reporting. This enables us to act more quickly to ensure safe and efficient operations. We continue to expand the deployment of T-Pulse, an AI-automated safety monitoring solution developed by Detect Technologies. T-Pulse uses closed circuit television (CCTV) to identify and report real-time safety issues, unsafe acts, conditions and potential leaks. These observations are used to inform the sites and enable them to take more focused preventative measures. Sites have achieved an average 70% reduction in the number of safety observations made by T-Pulse since the start of deployment. This includes categories such as line of fire and material handling. We continue to roll out active fatigue and distraction detection (AFDD) devices across Shell-operated ventures and affiliated contractor vehicles, starting with high-risk countries then expanding to lower-risk ones. These devices, currently in use in 20 countries, monitor fatigue and distraction to help improve driving behaviour, provide feedback and generate insights that help us to improve operating practices. On average, we have seen a 25% reduction in the severe motor vehicle incident (SMVI) rate for heavy transport vehicles globally, compared to individual locations benchmarks prior to deployment. 126 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Safety continued Personal safety We continue to focus on strengthening the safety culture and leadership among our employees and contractors. This aligns with our focus on care for people. Our SEAM Standards establish requirements for managing occupational health and safety hazards that have the potential to result in harm to people. When our employees and contractors perform tasks, we expect them to consider the hazards that could potentially cause harm and the effectiveness of the barriers in place to prevent incidents and manage the consequences should an event occur. We establish and maintain competence management systems to help ensure people are competent to perform their roles and responsibilities. We run safety awareness programmes and hold an annual global Safety Day to give employees and contractors time to discuss safety culture on the front-line and to reflect on how to prevent incidents and improve performance. In 2025, the focus was on "How I respond matters" because how each of us responds to concerns, dilemmas and errors sets the tone for our workplace and influences our culture. These responses can either lead to learning or diminish the opportunity to improve. Demonstrating care and responding positively to concerns encourages staff to raise issues and ideas in the future. Process safety Process safety management is about keeping hazardous substances inside pipes, tanks and vessels, and ensuring that well fluids are contained during construction, interventions (such as maintenance) and incidents. Our SEAM Standards establish requirements from project design and construction throughout the life cycle of the asset to keep sites, employees, contractors and communities safe. Our SEAM Standards set out our requirements for managing process safety risks, from identifying potential safety hazards to designing the controls that prevent them from occurring. Our standards require the use of barriers that operate independently of each other to reduce the likelihood of a release becoming catastrophic. Such barriers are designed so that if one fails, this does not lead to the failure of others. In 2025, we continued to focus on standardising our risk assessment tools, improving human performance, working to mitigate process safety risks and moving from lagging indicators (measuring past outcomes) to leading indicators for future performance. With the implementation of the SEAM Standards, our assurance methodologies for process safety have been updated to provide more insight on the health of barriers designed to reduce the likelihood of leaks and mitigate any potential consequences should a leak occur. We continue to learn from investigations into industry incidents and embed this knowledge into our process safety standards and training programmes. Preparing for emergencies We prepare and routinely practise our emergency response plans for potential events, such as spills or fires. This involves working closely with local emergency services and regulatory agencies to jointly test our plans and procedures. Shell requires key operating facilities to test their emergency response preparedness in accordance with regulatory requirements and in line with industry best practices. In 2025, we held large-scale emergency response exercises in Brazil, the Gulf of America, Brunei and Qatar. We manage three regional Emergency Response Leadership Councils for the Americas; Asia-Pacific; and Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The councils bring together experts from different teams that need to be able to work together in case of emergencies. In 2025, the councils' annual regional conferences covered a variety of topics, such as lessons learned, fire dispersion modelling, cloud vapour ignition, drone application, rail response tactics and response preparedness. Transport safety Transporting large numbers of people, products and equipment poses safety risks. We seek to reduce these risks by developing best-practice standards within Shell. We also work with specialist contractors, industry bodies, non-governmental organisations and governments to find ways of reducing transport safety risks. Road safety In 2025, we continued to focus on strengthening our controls and implementing technologies that help us to better detect the conditions that can lead to incidents. Our SEAM Standards require Shell employees and contractors who are identified as driving on work-related business on public roads to undergo defensive driver training. In 2025, Shell employees and contractors drove around 326 million kilometres on company business, equivalent to approximately 8,135 times around the world. Transport managed by contractors accounts for most of the kilometres driven. There were 14 SMVIs, including one fatality. An SMVI is defined as a motor vehicle incident resulting in a fatality, serious injury or a rollover of a vehicle. Maritime safety At the end of 2025, we managed and operated a global fleet of 23 tankers, LNG carriers and the world's first liquefied hydrogen carrier. We are one of the world's largest charterers of oil and gas vessels. We work with our global maritime partners through our Maritime Partners in Safety Programme to improve the safety performance of the shipping industry. Aviation safety Aviation safety is fundamental to protecting lives. Our aviation standards are aligned with the IOGP Air Transport Recommended Practices and include processes for identifying and managing risks across fixed-wing aircraft, helicopters and remotely piloted systems. In 2025, for Shell-operated ventures, our owned and contracted aircraft flew around 30,000 hours and carried around 212,000 Shell and contractor passengers to destinations around the world. In addition, remotely piloted aircraft completed flights on surveys, inspections, emissions surveillance, and security and incident response. See shell.com for more information on transport safety. Photo: Robert deep-water training centre, Louisiana, USA. 127 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Safety continued Working with others We work with contractors and suppliers to help them understand our safety requirements. We strive to improve the energy industry's safety performance by sharing safety standards and experience with other operators, joint-venture partners, contractors and professional organisations. Executives from Shell and our major contractor companies have collaborated on Shell's contractor safety leadership programme since 2014. The programme seeks to identify strategies and practical ways to foster a shared safety culture and achieve our Goal Zero ambition of no harm and no leaks. The current multi-year focus is "Learning from Normal Work". Safety performance Tragically, four of our contractor colleagues in Shell-operated ventures lost their lives in incidents in 2025 while working for us. One contractor colleague who sustained burn injuries in a flash fire at our EcoOils facility in Malaysia in February 2025 passed away later that month. A contractor colleague working on a mobile drilling rig in Malaysia was trapped by a hydraulic watertight door and lost his life in April 2025. Another contractor colleague in Argentina died when the minivan he was travelling in was hit by a third-party vehicle in July 2025. In November 2025, a contractor colleague died as result of falling from a height from a crane cabin on a contracted drilling rig in the North Sea. Shell is profoundly impacted by this loss of life. We are committed to learning from these incidents, and we aim to take the necessary measures to prevent anything similar from happening again. We continue to work closely with our contractors to help build a strong safety culture at the front-line. We have adopted the IOGP metrics of fatality and permanent impairment (FPI) and FPI frequency (FPI-F) to measure our safety performance. FPI is defined as the outcome of work-related injury from which the person cannot or is not expected to return to their previous whole person function as a result of an acute single incident. FPI-F is calculated by dividing the number of employee and contractor FPIs by 100 million working hours. Analysing FPIs enables us to focus our investigations on the most serious incidents. The aim is to collect and analyse relevant, high-quality data that can help us improve our efforts to prevent serious injuries and fatalities. See The REMCO's reflections on safety on page 179. In 2025, the number of FPIs was 8, compared with 8 in 2024. The FPI-F was 2.1 cases per 100 million working hours compared with 1.7 in 2024. The number of FPIs for 2024 was revised from 7 to 8, as an incident which occurred in 2024 was confirmed in 2025 as having caused permanent impairment. The resulting FPI-F was revised from 1.5 to 1.7. We measure our process safety performance through Tier 1 and 2 events. A Tier 1 process safety event is an unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from a process, including non-toxic and non-flammable materials, with the greatest actual consequence resulting in harm to employees, contract staff or a neighbouring community, damage to equipment or exceeding a defined threshold quantity. A Tier 2 process safety event is a release of lesser consequence. The number of Tier 1 and 2 operational process safety events in 2025 showed a decrease compared with 2024. There were 62 events reported during the year compared with 89 in 2024 (revised from 90 reported in 2024 as an incident initially classified as Tier 2 was reclassified following the investigation as not meeting Tier 2 criteria). This reduction reflects our efforts to enhance process safety competence at the front line and increased leadership focus, along with asset-specific plans to reduce Losses of Primary Containment (LOPC). We remain vigilant and committed to sustaining our progress. A well control incident is defined as a non-compliance with the requirement that well operations be executed under the protection of at least two barriers for each potential flow path. In 2025, there were no Level 1 or Level 2 well control incidents in Shell-operated ventures. This is the fourth consecutive year without a Level 1 or Level 2 well control incident, since we began reporting these data in 2022. As part of our learner mindset approach, we investigate serious incidents so we can understand the underlying causes, including technical, behavioural, organisational and human factors. We share what we learn, internally and with contractors. We implement mitigations at the site of the incident as well as at a country or business level where appropriate. We seek to turn investigation findings into improved standards or better ways of working that can be applied across similar facilities. Security Our operations expose us to criminality, civil unrest, activism, terrorism, cyber disruption and acts of war that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our security risk mitigations follow the principles of "deter, detect, delay and respond". We strengthen the security of our assets, people and operations to reduce our exposure as appropriate, for example by conducting site security risk assessments, using journey management plans and performing travel risk assessments. We also invest in information risk management capabilities and crisis management and business continuity measures. Shell is a member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR), a multi-stakeholder initiative that gives guidance on how to respect human rights while providing security for business operations. We implement this guidance within our own operations, concentrating on countries where the risks of working with government and private security providers are identified as greatest. 128 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations Our people Our people are essential to our strategy of delivering more value with less emissions. As we build our performance culture, we want our people to feel valued and respected, with a strong sense of belonging. We are transforming Shell to be a leaner, more competitive organisation as we focus on performance, discipline and simplification across our organisation. Simultaneously, we are building a performance culture that we believe will help us succeed as we navigate the energy transition. We aim to support positive social and economic impacts for our workforce by providing competitive pay, benefits and working conditions. As part of our performance culture, we aim to create a workplace that delivers results, where all employees can learn and adapt, collaborate as one team and care for each other, building resilience as we transform. We promote equal opportunity and aim to create an environment where people feel included. People development remains a priority for our organisation. We proactively identify skill and capability gaps for our traditional and emerging businesses; offer training to address these gaps; and if needed, recruit talent externally to add to the skills and experiences of our workforce. To enable our leaders to lead this change, we support them through targeted interventions including leadership development and coaching. See "This is Shell" on pages 17-19 for more about our performance culture. All metrics in this section exclude employees from portfolio companies [A], except for those showing the total number of employees by gender and region, employee contract type by gender, the percentage of women employees, employee turnover and certain mandatory training courses. Starting in 2025, the metrics for employee contract type by gender and employee turnover include employees from portfolio companies. [A] Portfolio companies are non-integrated entities within the Shell Group. To give these companies the flexibility they need, they operate as subsidiaries while generally retaining their own processes and systems. Portfolio companies comply with Shell's minimum requirements for controls and compliance. This includes the Shell Performance Framework and mandatory requirements for ethics and compliance, risk management and safety. Employees 85,000 Countries and territories 70 countries in which we operate Directors 42% women on the Board of Directors Executive Committee 44% women on the Executive Committee Senior leaders 35% women in senior leadership positions Women employees 35% women employees Training 253,000 training days for employees and joint-venture partners in 2025 External hires 3,593 people joined Shell (35% women, 65% men) in 2025 The numbers presented above reflect data as at December 31, 2025, unless otherwise stated. Employee overview We employed 85,000 people on a full- or part-time basis as of December 31, 2025. This compares with 96,000 at the end of 2024 and 103,000 at the end of 2023. The reduction in the number of employees in 2025 compared with 2024 reflects our continued focus on performance, discipline and simplification as we implement our strategy. We improved efficiencies, and made divestments in Singapore (Bukom, Jurong), in Nigeria (SPDC) and in the UK to the Adura joint venture and ended several activities in our Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions business. We also improved efficiencies in our Projects & Technology, IT and Finance functions. 129 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Our people continued Employee overview figures include people working for Shell companies and Shell-operated joint ventures, as well as those seconded to non-operated joint ventures, but exclude contingent workers, otherwise referred to as contractors. Contractors are external workers who are engaged directly or through third parties to provide services to Shell. They work alongside Shell employees across several of our businesses. Changes in headcount We employed 72,000 people in Shell, excluding portfolio companies, at the end of December 2025. This is fewer than the 81,000 at the end of 2024. Shell's portfolio companies, which generally maintain their own HR systems, employed 13,000 people at the end of 2025 compared with 15,000 at the end of 2024. See Note 33 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 289 for the average number of employees by business segment. The table below presents the total number of employees by gender and region as of December 31, 2025. Number of employees by gender and region [A] thousand 2025 2024 2023 Men Women Total Total Total Number of employees 55 30 85 96 103 Breakdown by region Africa 1.2 0.6 2 3 4 Asia 19.7 13.0 33 36 38 Europe 16.3 9.5 26 30 31 North America 15.1 5.7 21 23 24 Oceania 1.8 0.8 3 3 4 South America 0.9 0.6 2 2 2 [A] Split may not add up to the total due to rounding. The table below presents the distribution of employee contract type by gender as of December 31, 2025. Employee contract type by gender [A] thousand 2025 2024 Men Women Men Women Permanent contract/ Employment at-will [B] 54.2 29.8 52.0 28.0 Fixed-term contract 0.7 0.4 0.8 0.3 [A] 2024 data excludes employees in portfolio companies. [B] Employment-at-will is used in the USA to describe the employment relationship. The table below presents the number of employees by age group. Employees by age group [A] [B] thousand % of employees 2025 2024 2023 Under 30 years old 13% 9 10 12 Between 30 and 50 years old 65% 47 52 54 Above 50 years old 22% 16 19 18 Total employees 100% 72 81 84 [A] Excludes employees in portfolio companies. [B] Includes employees seconded to joint ventures. Shell aims to be an attractive employer to its existing and prospective employees. We offer employees the opportunity to develop their careers within Shell to enable them to build their skills and progress. See "This is Shell" on pages 17-19. As of December 31, 2025 employee turnover was 18.3%. A total of 16,613 employees left Shell including 8,416 voluntary resignations. The total includes 5,652 voluntary resignations from non-integrated portfolio companies, which we report separately for transparency [A]. In 2024, Shell collected turnover data only for integrated companies, which did not include portfolio companies. Excluding portfolio companies, turnover in 2025 was 11.2% , with 8,565 employees leaving Shell of whom 2,764 resigned voluntarily. This compares to 7.6% in 2024 with 6,227 employees leaving of whom 2,931 resigned voluntarily excluding portfolio companies. [A] Turnover levels in portfolio companies are typically higher, reflecting operating models and workforce dynamics that differ materially from our fully integrated entities. Employee engagement Insight into employee needs and perspectives enables Shell to continually learn and improve our policies, processes and practices. Management regularly engages with employees through elected employee representatives and a range of local formal and informal channels. These channels include webcasts and all-employee messages from our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and other senior leaders, as well as town halls, team meetings and site visits by the Board and Executive Committee (EC). In 2025, members of the Board and EC visited Shell sites in Queensland, Australia where they engaged with employees on our business strategy and operations. The Board Chair also met with employees based in London, China and the Netherlands. See "Board activities" on page 148. In 2025, 253,000 formal training days were delivered to employees and joint-venture partners. This compares with 264,000 training days in 2024 and the reduction mainly reflects lower employee numbers in 2025 [A]. In 2025, we expanded access to self-directed learning via the Learning Experience Platform, where we are curating internal and external learning content. In parallel, we continue to streamline the training content and assignments by making them more targeted for our people. These shifts support an enhanced learner-led culture, with employees taking greater ownership of their development. [A] Training days are counted for all employees active at any point in the year, including those who left before year-end. We seek to comply with applicable local laws and regulations, including those on working hours. Shell is committed to respecting human rights. This includes, but is not limited to, the elimination of forced and child labour, respect for freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Where appropriate, engagements take place with union and employee representatives at asset and country level, as well as with the Shell European Works Council. Employees have access to senior leaders, local employee forums and employee resource groups. We believe these engagements enable Shell to maintain a constructive employee and industrial relations environment. 130 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Our people continued The Shell People Survey The Shell People Survey is one of the key tools we use to measure employee engagement, motivation, affiliation and commitment to Shell. External and internal research shows that increased employee engagement can result in better business performance and improved safety. In 2025, the response rate to the survey was 85%, compared with 86% in 2024, which indicates our people's continued desire to provide feedback. The overall employee engagement score increased to 76 in 2025 from 75 points in 2024 (compared with the top quartile organisations which scored 80 and above points). We believe this reflects the level of continued change within the organisation as we transform our business. Pay, benefits and well-being Our Fair Pay Principles are designed to manage pay at Shell and help us ensure that employees are valued, respected and recognised for the work they do. Shell's pay is designed to be market competitive and free from bias. The basis for paying fairly is equal pay for equal work, taking into account factors such as performance and experience. Through regular benchmarking, Shell's compensation is typically higher than the minimum wage level observed locally, including in countries without legislation on minimum wage. Pay adjustment at Shell is linked to performance and we share this information with employees to help them understand how their pay adjustments are made. We continue to engage employees transparently and openly about our pay policies to help build understanding, trust and confidence in our approach. Shell provides a range of benefits, such as global minimum standards for life, accident and disability cover, as well as maternity and parental leave, except in certain cases where we are precluded from offering this. Our benefit packages are tailored to each country to meet the requirements of local laws and regulations. Flexible work We seek to build a sense of community and collaboration within Shell's sites, where we want employees to feel welcome and valued. By enabling people to balance their work and personal lives, we can help them perform at their best. Our Future of Work guide advises employees and team leaders on hybrid working options. Employee well-being Our goal is to empower our employees to feel their best and perform at their best. Care for people is a key desired behaviour within our performance culture. We do this by promoting mindsets and behaviours that support good health, and protecting our people from illness by mitigating known risk factors. We use evidence-based tools and provide access to timely support and care for those who are injured, ill or struggling. Interventions to promote mental, physical and social well-being are delivered via a mix of measures. For example, through the design of our workspaces, through local benefit offerings such as gyms and health checks, and through our country-based employee networks, group activities and events. Our programmes and global campaigns, such as that for World Mental Health Day, help develop individual and team well-being skill sets to create healthy and psychologically safe working environments and nurture a culture of care. Mental well-being We work to reduce the stigma associated with mental ill health through open conversations, global and country-level campaigns, senior leader communications, engagements with elected employee representatives and through our experience-sharing portal for employees. This commitment is underscored by our CEO's leadership pledge with MindForward Alliance and the launch of our Global Mental Well-being Programme in 2023. The programme's interventions focus on developing a workplace culture that supports good mental health and offers employees the opportunity to complete an anonymous and voluntary survey in which they can voice their experience of well-being at Shell. We monitor the survey results to identify opportunities to improve employee well-being. In 2025, we continued to improve the programme, adding adaptive e-learning content for line managers in workplace mental health, enhancing accessibility of programme resources for front-line staff and introducing new resources such as those that address resilience and financial well-being. Diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I) We aim to become one of the world's most diverse and inclusive organisations, a place where everyone feels valued, respected and has a strong sense of belonging. It is the diverse perspectives, experiences, expertise, cultures and working styles of each employee that make Shell unique. This uniqueness combined with equity and inclusion enables our performance culture. Our Code of Conduct prohibits discrimination and sets our Group expectations for equal opportunity in employment decisions, based on factors such as merit, qualifications, performance and business considerations. Our ambitions around diversity, equity and inclusion are monitored on a regular basis. We continually assess our culture and employee engagement through tools such as the annual Shell People Survey. We promote equal opportunity and aim to create an environment where people feel included. Our approach seeks to reinforce respect for people and to provide psychological safety for all our employees. In 2025, our Shell People Survey showed a result of 82 points out of 100 for all questions relating to DE&I. This is an increase of one point from 2024. However, we are still below the top quartile of organisations in the comparison group which scored 85 and above. We will continue to focus on improving these efforts in the workplace. As of 2025, and where legally permissible, Shell is able to provide 92% of employees with the option to voluntarily declare their gender identity, sexual orientation, race and ethnicity, and disability via the HR system. Data from this self-identification initiative allow us to monitor progress against our DE&I aspirations. See "Nomination and Succession Committee" on pages 154-156. Gender We strive to achieve gender equality. We have signed the World Economic Forum declaration on closing the gender gap in the oil and gas sector and, in line with the UK Listing Rules, the Board of Shell plc aims for gender balance on the Board, with at least one senior Board position [A] held by a woman. To provide flexibility for periods of change, we aim to maintain the representation of both men and women on the Board at, or above, a minimum of 40%. As of December 31, 2025, women made up 42% of the Board and the position of Chief Financial Officer (CFO) was held by a woman. Over the years, Shell has progressively increased the representation of women on the EC and in senior leadership roles. As of December 31, 2025, we had 44% women and 56% men on our EC. Our aim was to achieve 35% representation of women in our senior leadership positions by 2025. As of December 31, 2025, we had achieved 35%, up from 33% in 2024. We aim to achieve 40% by 2030. In accordance with applicable laws, and where permissible in local jurisdictions, Shell has global aspirations for representation. We are committed to building a diverse and inclusive workforce. All employment decisions, including hiring, promotions and separations, are based solely on factors such as merit, qualifications, performance and business considerations. The following table shows the representation of men and women as of December 31, 2025. [A] Senior Board position means Chair, CEO, Senior Independent Director or CFO. 131 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Our people continued Gender diversity at Board and management level [A] Men Women Level 2025 2024 2025 2024 Board 58% 58% 42% 42% Executive Committee 56% 43% 44% 57% Senior Leadership roles [A] [B] 65% 67% 35% 33% [A] Senior Leadership is a Shell measure based on compensation grade levels. This measure is distinct from "senior manager" as per statutory disclosure requirements set out in the table below. [B] Excludes employees in portfolio companies. Gender diversity (at December 31, 2025) Men Women Number % Number % Directors of the Company 7 58% 5 42% Senior managers [A] 695 64% 394 36% Employees (thousand) 55 65% 30 35% [A] Senior manager is defined in section 414C(9) of the UK Companies Act 2006 and, accordingly, the number disclosed comprises the EC members who were not Directors of the Company and other directors of Shell subsidiaries (excluding Directors of portfolio companies). As of December 31, 2025, 35% of Shell employees were women. Of the external hires who joined Shell as of December 31, 2025, 35% were women, compared with 39% in 2024. A crucial element of achieving gender balance is addressing any pay gap [A] and we continue to work towards improvements in this area. The basis for paying fairly is equal pay for equal work, taking into account factors such as performance and experience. At Shell, we monitor pay equity [B] through regular analysis to be confident that we have pay equity between genders for performing the same jobs. We address any unexplained pay differences related to gender through rigorous internal processes and apply our Fair Pay Principles. We continue to make progress in our gender ambitions at Shell, but a gender pay gap exists for several reasons, including fewer women in senior leadership positions and fewer women in higher-paid specialist roles. [A] Shell seeks to comply with applicable requirements and regulation on pay gap reporting. [B] Men and women who are paid the same for doing similar jobs, at similar level, responsibility, tenure and performance. Race and ethnicity Through racial and ethnic representation across our workforce, we aim to reflect the communities in which we work. Shell's Global Council for Race is supported by an Employee Advisory Board which aims to advance diversity in our workforce. Shell aims to maintain or exceed having at least one Board member from an ethnic minority background, while acknowledging that in periods of Board change this may not be achieved. As of December 31, 2025, the Board had three members who identify as being from an ethnic minority group and one EC member who identifies as being from an ethnic minority group [A]. In line with the Parker Review recommendations, Shell aimed to achieve 15% ethnic minority group representation in Senior Management [B] by 2027, which has been achieved in advance of the target date. We will now aim to achieve 17% by 2027. As at the end of 2025, ethnic minority representation in Senior Management was 16%. [A] Ethnic minority refers to an individual who self-identifies as Asian, Black, Mixed/multiple or other ethnic minority group, in line with UK Office for National Statistics classifications. [B] Senior Management refers to senior leadership based in the UK, measured based on compensation grade, and aligned with our self-identification data collection and processes. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. In some countries, there are local restrictions on collecting and reporting race and ethnicity data. Shell offers employees the option to voluntarily declare their race and ethnicity via our self-identification initiative. See shell.com for more information on our DE&I progress. LGBT+ We are working to advance lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender plus (LGBT+) inclusion within Shell and the communities where we work. Most of our work around LGBT+ inclusion happens at a country level, in line with local policies, laws and regulations. Disability inclusion and accessibility We are working to advance an inclusive, psychologically safe and accessible environment where people with disabilities can excel. We provide support and adjustments for people with disabilities during the recruitment process. For example, candidates with a disability or long-term health condition can indicate whether they require adjustments to our facilities or our job application process. Our support teams and systems are equipped to make these adjustments if required. We also support employees throughout their careers with Shell, including through access to educational resources, training programmes, and personal and professional development. Our Disability, Accessibility and Inclusion portal provides comprehensive guidance and tools for line managers, leaders, people with disabilities and employees to be active allies. Shell's enABLE employee resource groups provide expertise and advice to Shell leaders and our businesses on accessibility and disability inclusion. We also offer a workplace accessibility service which covers 64 locations in 32 countries. The team is supported by functions such as Shell Health, HR, Real Estate and IT. Shell is part of the Valuable 500, which comprises 500 of the world's largest companies and organisations that are working collectively to progress disability inclusion. We are also an active member of the Business Disability Forum and PurpleSpace. Employee share plans Our share plans align employees' interests with our performance and shareholder interests. See the "Directors' Remuneration Report" on pages 169-192. Discretionary share awards For 2025, Restricted Share Awards (RSA) and/or Performance Share Awards (PSA) were awarded to nominated employees on a selective basis. These awards have a three-year vesting period. RSAs provide a stake in the Company's future. PSAs have performance conditions that are clearly aligned with Shell's strategic ambitions. For the 2025 PSA, 25% of the award is linked to organic free cash flow*, 25% to the energy transition, and 50% is linked to competitive capital allocation (defined as CFFO divided by average capital employed) and total shareholder return (TSR) versus other energy majors. Under all plans, vesting shares are increased by notional dividends accrued during the period from award to vesting. In certain circumstances, awards may be adjusted before delivery or be subject to clawback after delivery. None of the awards result in beneficial ownership until the shares vest. See Note 28 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 283. Employee Share Ownership Plans Eligible employees in participating countries may participate in a plan that enables them to purchase the Company's shares at a discount to the market price or with a matching element. 132 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations Our contribution to society Shell strives to make a positive impact on society by providing the energy people need, contributing to local economies, managing our impacts on communities and respecting human rights. For more than a century, Shell has been at the heart of the global energy system, fuelling people's homes, industries and transport from cars to planes and ships. Our activities contribute to economies and communities around the world through job creation, spending on goods and services, and through the payment of taxes and royalties to governments. As w e navigate the energy transition, we continue to work with governments and society to support positive economic and social impacts on our workforce, communities, suppliers and customers. Many of our operations are located close to communities and we aim to be a good neighbour. This includes strong community engagement, managing the negative social impacts of our operations and delivering a range of benefits through jobs, support for local businesses and social investment programmes. This engagement enables us to identify and manage positive and negative impacts from our activities and, where necessary, provide access to remedy. In 2025, the Energy Access Fund – a $500 million joint investment commitment with Shell, bp, Equinor and TotalEnergies announced in November 2024 – started making energy access investments in emerging markets. These investments, including Shell's $200 million contribution, aim to bring access to electricity and improve clean cooking for millions of people in underserved communities. Spending and taxes In 2025, our total spend on goods and services (in operated and non-operated ventures) was around $40 billion* from suppliers around the world, compared with $41 billion in 2024. [A] The reduction is mainly driven by structural cost reductions across our organisation and disciplined capital expenditure as we implement our strategy to deliver more value with less emissions. Our activities also generate revenues for governments through the taxes and royalties we pay, which can help governments fund health care, education and other essential services. We publish an annual Tax Contribution Report which sets out the corporate income tax that Shell pays in the countries and locations where we have a taxable presence. In 2025, Shell paid $17 billion in taxes* to governments, of which $12 billion was paid in corporate income taxes and $5 billion in government royalties and production taxes. See shell.com for more information about Shell's tax transparency. [A] 2024 comparative figure has been revised from $42 billion to $41 billion. See "Non-GAAP measures reconciliations" on pages 323-328 for further details. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. Spend on goods and services* $40 billion Total spend Taxes paid* $17 billion Corporate income taxes, royalties and production taxes Social investment $115 million Mandatory and voluntary spend The numbers presented above reflect data for the full year 2025. Supply chain Our business activities depend on a competitive and resilient supply chain. Suppliers play an important role in helping to deliver our strategy and helping to create value for our stakeholders. As part of Shell's responsible sourcing approach, we aim to work with suppliers that behave in an economically, environmentally and socially responsible manner. Shell partners with suppliers who adhere to our Shell General Business Principles and Shell Supplier Principles. The Shell Supplier Principles set out our expectations of suppliers with respect to business integrity; health, safety, security, environment and social performance (HSSE & SP); and labour and human rights. Our standard contract terms require adherence to these or equivalent principles. Worker welfare Our approach to worker welfare focuses on the well-being of supplier staff on Shell sites and dedicated supplier staff on non-Shell sites, where we have the most ability to influence safety, working conditions and labour rights. We also work with our partners and peers to include worker welfare in industry standards, guidance and best practice. This helps raise standards and levels of consistency across the industry. Our approach is based on the principles established by Building Responsibly, an alliance of companies that seeks to promote the rights and welfare of workers in the engineering and construction industry. In 2025, we continued to collaborate with peers to drive consistency across the industry on worker welfare. For example, together with Ipieca, we helped to create a toolkit on worker welfare with resources, guidance and definitions to help align the industry around common definitions and good practices. See shell.com for more information about how we engage with contractors and suppliers. 133 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Our contribution to society continued Working with communities We engage with communities to help us understand their needs and expectations. This engagement enables us to identify and manage impacts from our activities and provide access to remedy. Engagement is a continuous process that helps us improve our decision-making and performance. Shell's Safety, Environment and Asset Management (SEAM) Standards are designed to help us to operate responsibly and avoid or minimise any potentially negative environmental and social impacts that may result from our operations. Communities can raise concerns in a number of ways. At large projects and assets, community engagement practitioners act as a bridge between local communities and our operations. Community feedback mechanisms allow us to receive, track and respond to questions and complaints. In 2025, we continued to track how satisfied community members using the mechanism were with how we managed and responded to their feedback. Communities can also raise concerns anonymously through the Shell Global Helpline. Our SEAM Standards require us to apply special procedures in situations involving involuntary resettlement, cultural heritage, Indigenous Peoples or operations in environments with high or unusual social risks. In 2025, we engaged in plans to manage impacts associated with economic displacement in India. We also provided support to help avoid or manage involuntary resettlement impacts in a number of our non-operated ventures. See "Our approach to sustainability" on page 122. See shell.com for more information about our work with communities. Social investment Our activities contribute to economies through taxes, jobs and business opportunities. We also make social investments in areas determined by local community needs and priorities. These investments are sometimes voluntary, sometimes required by governments, or part of a contractual agreement. Shell has three priority areas for social investment: access to energy; skills and enterprise development; and science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education. In 2025, we spent $115 million on social investment, of which $12 million (11%) was required by government regulations or contractual agreements. We spent the remaining $103 million (89%) on voluntary social investment. See shell.com for more information about our social investment. Human rights Human rights are fundamental to Shell's core values of honesty, integrity and respect for people. Respect for human rights is embedded in the Shell General Business Principles and our Code of Conduct. Shell is committed to respecting human rights, as set out in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our approach is informed by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We work closely with various organisations to improve how we apply these UN guiding principles. In 2025, we continued to work on salient human rights issues, which are the rights potentially most at risk from our operations. We prioritise four focus areas where respect for human rights is critical to how we operate: at the workplace, including labour rights, and in supply chains, communities and security. For each of these areas, we have systems to identify potential impacts and to avoid and mitigate them. Shell employees working in these focus areas need to complete human rights training. We updated this training in 2025 to make it more scenario-based. We encourage all employees to complete the course regardless of their role, to build greater understanding of human rights across Shell. Human rights focus areas See "Safety" on pages 126-128. See shell.com for more information about our approach to human rights. 134 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations Environment Shell believes that no business can succeed without an unwavering commitment to respecting the environment and the communities within which it works. Our business activities can impact the environment through our use of natural resources, our emissions and discharges, our generation of waste and through changes to natural habitats. We seek to protect the environment, increase our reuse and recycling, make a positive contribution to biodiversity, and use water and other resources efficiently. This is embedded in our activities and decision‑making, supported by strengthened data reporting to meet regulatory requirements. We also build the knowledge and skills of our employees to help them manage our environmental impacts in line with our standards. We require our operated assets to be certified to an independent and internationally recognised standard for environmental management systems, such as ISO 14001 or equivalent, if they have significant environmental risks. Data in this section is reported on a 100% basis for companies and joint ventures in which Shell is the operator, unless stated otherwise. See "Our approach to sustainability" on page 122. Biodiversity and ecosystems We aim to manage the impact of our activities on the environment and to make a positive contribution to biodiversity in our operations. ￮ Forest habitats: We are replanting forests and working to achieve net-zero deforestation from new activities while maintaining biodiversity and conservation value. ￮ Critical habitats: Our new projects in areas rich in biodiversity, known as critical habitats, are designed to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity. ￮ World Heritage Sites: Since 2003, we do not explore for or develop oil and gas in natural and mixed World Heritage Sites. When planning a project, our standards require us to assess the potential impact of projects on biodiversity and communities as part of our impact assessment process. We then apply the mitigation hierarchy, a decision-making framework that involves a sequence of four key actions: avoid, minimise, restore and offset. Achieving a positive impact on biodiversity can take many years because complex ecosystems need time to develop after conservation efforts. We believe it is important to involve communities in conservation projects, so we often work in collaboration with local organisations. Projects in critical habitats 100% with a biodiversity action plan as at December 31, 2025 Deforestation 186 total hectares deforested Reforestation 186 total hectares replanted Waste disposed 1,987 thousand tonnes Reusable or recyclable packaging by design 99% of total by weight [A] Water-stressed areas 6 million cubic metres fresh-water consumption Operational spills - number 34 number of incidents [B] Operational spills - volume 0.16 thousand tonnes [B] [A] Shell-branded plastic packaging in Lubricants and Mobility. [B] Hydrocarbon spills of more than 100 kilograms to the environment. The numbers presented above reflect data for the full year 2025, unless otherwise stated. Forest habitats Deforestation occurs when forests are converted to non-forest uses. We apply the definition of forest used by the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Our commitment to net-zero deforestation commenced in 2022. Our aim is to avoid deforestation, in line with the mitigation hierarchy. Where avoidance is not achievable, we require our assets, projects and businesses to develop and implement reforestation plans. These plans include measures designed to achieve net-zero deforestation, while maintaining biodiversity and conservation value. We work with partners and stakeholders to develop robust and credible plans unique to each reforestation project. 135 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Environment continued There is typically a time lag between the deforestation of an area and the start of the replanting process, which can range from months to years. As a result, there is often a difference in the number of hectares deforested and the number of hectares replanted within a single year. In 2025, around 186 hectares were deforested as a result of our activities. This occurred largely in Australia, Canada, and Trinidad and Tobago, where we are preparing for or implementing reforestation programmes in line with local plans. In 2025, we reforested 88 hectares in Australia and 98 hectares in Canada. Critical habitats Critical habitats are specific areas of high biodiversity value in which receptors are particularly sensitive to development. When undertaking a project in a critical habitat, we aim to go beyond compensating for a residual adverse impact to deliver an overall conservation gain to or net positive impact on biodiversity. If a project is located in a critical habitat, we develop and implement a biodiversity action plan. This sets out the actions needed to follow the mitigation hierarchy and includes measures to achieve a net positive impact on biodiversity. At the end of 2025, 45 new projects for which the final investment decision had been taken after February 2021 were located in critical habitats. All of these have a biodiversity action plan in place to work towards a net positive impact. Examples of activities in development or under way in 2025 include: ￮ In Norway, we supported a local landowner to restore areas of degraded coastal heathland around our Ormen Lange operations, removing overgrowth and invasive species and introducing sheep grazing to maintain the habitat quality over time. ￮ Following completion of a seismic exploration programme in the Red Sea in 2022, we partnered with the Hurghada Environmental Protection and Conservation Association (HEPCA) to install 32 mooring buoys near several coral reef sites in Egypt. The buoys are designed to prevent damage caused by diving vessels' anchors, helping to protect ecosystems and preserve marine biodiversity. ￮ Together with ConocoPhillips, Santos and Eco Logical Australia, we completed a decade-long monitoring programme under the Gladstone Long-term Turtle Management Plan. The plan focuses on conserving and advancing scientific understanding of marine turtles in the Great Barrier Reef region of Queensland, Australia. Resource use and circular economy We aim to use resources efficiently and to increase our reuse and recycling. Our businesses are continuing their efforts to address the waste we generate and working to identify options to increase circular approaches. Waste and circularity Our SEAM Standards require our assets, projects or businesses to develop strategies to identify circularity-related risks and opportunities. We aim to encourage the development of fit-for-purpose objectives and strategies based on the principles of rethink, refuse, reduce, reuse, recycle and repair. Between 2021 and 2024, we completed 26 detailed assessments across our businesses to better understand the types of waste we generate and identify options to increase circular approaches. Using the results of these assessments, our assets are improving local waste management practices by prioritising waste prevention, reuse and recycling over energy recovery and disposal. Key developments related to waste and circularity in 2025 include: ￮ In Malaysia, our upstream operations are sending waste materials from drilling activities to be recovered and used in cement and lubricant production. ￮ In Qatar, our Research and Technology Centre received regulatory approval to conduct a commercial trial using bio-sludge from our Pearl GTL facility to enhance soil in the landscaping sector. ￮ In the Gulf of America, our operations are reducing their disposal of unused chemicals by returning them to suppliers for reuse. In 2025, we disposed of 1,987 thousand tonnes of waste, compared with 1,933 thousand tonnes in 2024. Plastics Shell supports the need for improved circularity of the global plastics market. We encourage reduction, reuse and recycling of plastics and are a founding member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, which helps governments to assess and improve waste collection and waste management. We are working with partners across the plastic waste value chain, such as the waste management industry and pyrolysis oil producers, to encourage the development of a more circular value chain. Since 2019, Shell has been processing pyrolysis oil made from mixed plastic waste at the Shell Norco Energy and Chemicals Park in the USA. In 2025, we completed our first full year of production at our new pyrolysis oil upgrader at the Shell Chemicals Park Moerdijk in the Netherlands. The upgrader improves the quality of pyrolysis oil, a liquid made from hard-to-recycle plastic waste, and turns it into chemical feedstock. Packaging Shell aims to increase the amount of recycled plastic in Shell-branded packaging to 30% by 2030 based on the reference year of 2022 and to use packaging for our products that is reusable or recyclable by design. These aims apply to Shell-branded Mobility and Lubricants products. ￮ Packaging classified as reusable or recyclable: In 2025, we continued to meet our aim to use packaging for our products that is reusable or recyclable by design. We maintained 99% total Shell-branded product packaging classified as reusable or recyclable in our Lubricants business and achieved 96% in our Mobility business, compared with 79% in the base year of 2022. ￮ Recycled plastic content in packaging: By the end of 2025, we had achieved a level of 21% recycled plastic content by weight in Shell-branded plastic packaging compared with 10% in the base year of 2022. As of January 1, 2026, we have retired the portion of this aim related to packaging classified as reusable or recyclable by design as this has been consistently achieved. We have processes in place to maintain a similar level of performance. With respect to the portion of this aim related to recycled plastic content in packaging, we have narrowed the Mobility scope to car care products only. Other product areas contribute to less than 0.5% of total Shell-branded packaging for Mobility and Lubricants. Water We require our assets, projects or businesses to manage sourcing, use, treatment and disposal of water based on recognised water stewardship principles and to implement this through a water stewardship management plan. These plans help us to move away from focusing only on our impact on the environment to a holistic approach that considers how we potentially impact, and are impacted by, the environment. They also help us to reduce consumption in water-stressed areas. Since 2021, we have conducted water stewardship assessments at 25 assets across different businesses and regions, with a priority on operations in areas of high water stress and those that use significant 136 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Environment continued quantities of fresh water. The insights gained from these assessments have moved us towards a more holistic stewardship approach. This goes beyond only focusing on water use to also considering factors such as water footprint, regional water stress, water quality, catchments, governance and stakeholder engagement. In 2021, we set a voluntary commitment to reduce our consumption of fresh water by 15% by 2025 compared with 2018 levels in areas where there is high fresh-water stress. We achieved this commitment ahead of time in 2022. In 2025, our consumption of fresh water in areas of high water stress was 6 million cubic metres compared with 25 million cubic metres in the base year of 2018, a 76% reduction over the period. Changes to our portfolio, including divestments, are a key driver of this reduction, alongside operational improvements. Having met our commitment three years ahead of time, and with our exposure to water-stressed areas having been reduced significantly over this period, this commitment was retired on schedule at the end of 2025. Examples of activities in development or under way in 2025 include: ￮ In Malaysia, the Shell MDS GTL plant completed the testing of a small-scale water treatment facility to recycle wastewater back into the process. The plant is exploring opportunities to scale and implement this. ￮ Shell Chemicals Park Moerdijk in the Netherlands and the Pearl GTL facility in Qatar reached final investment decisions to install advanced anaerobic water treatment units, which better manage effluent discharges. Discharges to water We track pollutants in water returned to the environment from the day-to-day running of our facilities (referred to as "discharges to surface water"). We work to minimise these discharges according to local regulatory requirements and our SEAM Standards. Air quality We follow the most stringent of either the SEAM Standards or local regulations to manage airborne pollutants in our operations, including emissions of nitrogen oxides (NO x ), sulphur oxides (SO x ) and volatile organic compounds (VOC). There are often synergies to be achieved between greenhouse gas improvement opportunities and reducing emissions of other air pollutants. For example, operational emission reductions achieved from greenhouse gas abatement projects (e.g. reduced flaring, increased energy efficiency and use of renewable electricity) can also reduce emissions of VOCs, SO x and NO x . In 2025, we continued to implement leak detection and repair programmes to reduce emissions of VOCs, with a focus on sources exceeding 100 tonnes per year. We are developing choices for customers to help people and companies reduce their transport emissions. This includes building our electric vehicle charging business. For heavy-duty road transport, LNG as a fuel, and GTL fuel and motor oils help reduce sulphur emissions, particulates and nitrogen oxide compared with oil-based products. Our key metrics in 2025 include: ￮ SO x emissions in 2025 decreased to 18 thousand tonnes, compared with 21 thousand tonnes in 2024. ￮ NO x emissions in 2025 decreased to 73 thousand tonnes, compared with 92 thousand tonnes in 2024. ￮ VOC emissions in 2025 decreased to 31 thousand tonnes compared, with 37 thousand tonnes in 2024 (revised from 32 thousand tonnes following a review of the performance data). See "Less emissions" on page 89. Spills Our assets are designed to avoid discharges to soil or groundwater. However, spills can occur due to operational failure, accidents, unusual corrosion, or theft and sabotage. Large spills of crude oil, oil products and chemicals can harm the environment. They can also result in major clean-up costs, fines and other damages. Spills can affect our licence to operate and harm our reputation. Spill prevention and response Our policies on asset integrity and process safety are in place to prevent losses of containment from happening. We design, operate and maintain our facilities with the intention of preventing spills by identifying potential hazards and implementing controls that can prevent them from occurring. This is integral to our Goal Zero ambition of doing no harm to people and to have no leaks across our operations. If a spill or a leak occurs, we use barriers that operate independently of each other to reduce the likelihood of a release becoming catastrophic. Such barriers are designed so that, if the failure of one occurs, it does not lead to the failure of others. Our policies on soil and groundwater are designed to manage the potential health and environmental impacts should spills occur. Our business units are responsible for organising and executing spill responses in line with our SEAM Standards and relevant legal and regulatory requirements. Our assets have spill response plans, based on worst-case spill scenarios, should an incident occur. We also continue to be involved in industry groups to improve well-containment capabilities. These include the Marine Well Containment Company in the Gulf of America and Oil Spill Response Limited, a global industry group. For oil spills, we have a global response network that enables us to deal more effectively with oil spills, supplementing local response capability. See "Safety" on page 127. In 2025, there were 34 operational spills of more than 100 kilograms compared with 69 in 2024. The volume of operational spills of oil and oil products in 2025 was 0.16 thousand tonnes, compared with 1.23 thousand tonnes in 2024. This reduction reflects several factors, including the divestment of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC) and improved process safety performance. Spills in Nigeria On March 13, 2025, Shell completed the sale of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) to Renaissance. By preserving the full range of SPDC's operating capabilities, the transaction was designed to enable SPDC (now, under its new ownership, Renaissance Africa Energy Company Limited) to continue to perform its role as operator of the joint venture (previously known as the SPDC JV) and to meet its share of commitments within the joint venture, including those relating to health, safety, security and environment. In the period January 1, 2025, to March 13, 2025, the volume of operational spills of oil and oil products of more than 100 kilograms from SPDC JV facilities was 0.01 thousand tonnes (3 incidents). In the same period, the volume of crude oil spills of more than 100 kilograms from SPDC JV facilities caused by crude theft and sabotage was 0.01 thousand tonnes (6 incidents). 137 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations Living by our values Our core values of honesty, integrity and respect for people, and our focus on safety, people and sustainability are the foundations of Shell. We are guided by the Shell General Business Principles (SGBP) and our Code of Conduct. Ethics and transparency At Shell, we are committed to doing business in an ethical and transparent way. Our core values underpin our work with customers, investors, employees, contractors, communities, civil society and governments. The SGBP and Code of Conduct, as well as our Legal Group Requirements, are designed to help everyone at Shell behave according to our values. The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer (CECO) is the custodian of the Code of Conduct and oversees ethics and compliance activities. The CECO reports to the Chief Legal Officer. Shell General Business Principles The SGBP set out our responsibilities to shareholders, customers, employees, business partners and society. They set the standards for how we conduct business with integrity, care and respect for people. As part of these principles, we commit to contribute to sustainable development. All Shell employees and contractors, and those at the joint ventures we operate, are expected to behave in line with these principles. We undertake a range of activities to help embed the SGBP and the Code of Conduct throughout the organisation. This includes training and encouraging people to discuss the dilemmas they face in their work. Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct explains how employees, contractors and anyone else acting on Shell's behalf must behave to live up to our business principles. It addresses key topics including safety, anti-bribery and corruption, fair competition and human rights. In January 2026, we introduced the refreshed Code of Conduct, which gives even greater emphasis to the behaviours we expect from everyone who works for Shell. A key objective is to reinforce a working environment where people feel encouraged to speak up. We have also clarified our expectations for the responsible use of AI. Shell employees, contractors and third parties with whom Shell has a business relationship can report any potential breaches of the Code of Conduct confidentially through several channels, including anonymously through a global helpline operated by an independent provider. We maintain a stringent no retaliation policy to protect any person making an allegation in good faith. This protection extends to those who participate in or conduct an investigation. We investigate allegations of potential violations of the Code of Conduct or applicable laws promptly and independently of the management line concerned. In 2025, there were 1,983 reports to the Shell Global Helpline. We confirmed 332 cases involving breaches of the Code of Conduct, 337 employees or contractors were subject to disciplinary action, and of those 87 people were dismissed. Confirmed breaches include cases in which an allegation received in 2025 or a prior year was substantiated and closed. Ethics and compliance On December 1, 2025, we replaced our Ethics and Compliance Manual with the Legal Group Requirements. These requirements include the topics that were previously contained in the Ethics and Compliance Manual: anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering, fraud, preventing the facilitation of tax evasion, antitrust, data privacy and trade compliance. The Legal Group Requirements are a set of standards within Shell's Performance Framework which are designed to simplify how we achieve compliance, and further strengthen disciplined integrity, for example, through mandated processes explaining how to comply with the standards. Our employees receive guidance on the requirements in our Legal Group Requirements, including via a dedicated website and training modules where completion is monitored. This guidance is reinforced by messages from Shell leaders. In response to fast-moving external developments and trends, internal guidance is continually being monitored to help maintain its relevance. The type and depth of training is dependent on the level of risk. Training is repeated on a periodic basis determined by an individual's risk exposure. Those considered to be higher risk for exposure to bribery include, but are not limited to, persons involved in procurement and contracting, new business development and engaging with government officials. Shell Internal Audit and Investigations (SIAI) conducts risk-based audits of potential ethics and compliance issues in support of our Group-wide ethics and compliance programme. To help manage antitrust, competition, anti-bribery, fraud, tax evasion, anti-money laundering and trade compliance risks with adequate resources, we maintain risk-based compliance programmes, a comprehensive governance structure, established reporting lines, and policies and procedures, including mandatory due diligence, counterparty screening and regular risk assessments. 138 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Strategic Report | Performance in the year | Our Foundations | Living by our values continued Compliance in trading and supply We maintain a Trading Compliance function managed by a Chief Compliance Officer, as regulated by the UK Financial Conduct Authority, the US Commodities Futures Trading Commission and the Securities Commission of The Bahamas, with adequate resources, including employees and a budget; a governance structure; controls, policies and procedures; and established reporting lines. Employees in Shell's trading organisation receive guidance through several means, including the Code of Conduct; the organisation's Trading and Supply Compliance Manual, supplemented with specific policies; a specific compliance website; mandatory training modules where completion is monitored; and other relevant training. Shell leaders reinforce the importance of managing compliance and conduct risk in the trading organisation through monitoring risk metrics, reporting to compliance risk management and governance committees, setting clear expectations via townhall meetings and other channels, and enforcing consequences for non-compliance. Shell's Trading Compliance function has systems for trade surveillance and monitoring communication, in addition to a dedicated conduct and ethics investigation function to assess breaches of compliance and thematic trends. Data protection We maintain a privacy compliance programme based on our Binding Corporate Rules (BCR). Every Shell company is required to manage personal data in a professional, ethical and lawful manner. Our "privacy by design" process seeks to ensure that controls are embedded in IT systems and solutions, supported by the monitoring of regulatory developments, to protect personal data. Shell has appointed a Data Protection Officer (DPO) who serves to support requirements under the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and other applicable data privacy laws, except where there is a requirement to have a locally based DPO, such as in China and the Philippines. We monitor new data privacy legislation and seek to ensure we have a robust impact assessment process in place for the relevant businesses. We design our operations and processes based on relevant data privacy requirements and we build controls into our processes and practices which cover the handling of personal data. We maintain a Group-wide incident management process designed to identify and remediate data privacy breaches. The process also helps us to comply with country-level requirements for reporting breaches. Some of our acquired companies are not yet in full compliance with our BCRs. Following assessments for each of those companies, specific actions are planned and put in place to achieve compliance, with regular updates made on their progress to management. Reputation and brand We continually assess and monitor the external environment for potential risks to our reputation. We engage in dialogue with our key stakeholders, such as investors, industry and trade groups, academics, governments and non-governmental organisations, to gain greater insights into societal expectations of the Shell Group. We communicate with our stakeholders on what the Company is doing and why, our climate-related targets and ambition and our progress towards meeting them. We take proactive steps when appropriate through legal means to protect Shell's reputation from unwarranted accusations. Photo: CEO Wael Sawan's all-staff engagement, Krakow, November 2025. 139 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance The Board of Shell plc Sir Andrew Mackenzie Chair Board Committee membership: NOMCO (Chair) British, 69. Appointed October 1, 2020; Chair from May 18, 2021. Career Sir Andrew spent 22 years with bp, during which he worked across most business streams and functions – principally in oil and gas exploration and production, and petrochemicals. While with bp, he held senior and executive positions, including as Chief Reservoir Engineer and Chief Technology Officer. In 2004, he joined Rio Tinto, where he held various executive positions until 2007, including Head of Industrial Minerals and Diamonds. Sir Andrew joined BHP in 2008 and served as CEO from 2013 to 2019. As BHP CEO, he simplified and strengthened the business, and made it the first miner to pledge to tackle emissions caused when customers use its products. From 2005 to 2013, Sir Andrew served as a Non-executive Director of Centrica. He has also served on many not-for-profit boards, including public policy think tanks in the UK and Australia. Relevant skills and experience Sir Andrew has more than 30 years' experience in the mining and energy industries. In 2014, he was made a Fellow of the Royal Society, a Fellowship of many of the world's most eminent scientists. Sir Andrew has applied his deep understanding of the energy business and geopolitical outlook to create public-private partnerships and advise governments around the world. He continues to advocate for sustainable action on climate change, including access to affordable energy. His expertise is helping Shell navigate the energy transition. Sir Andrew also champions gender balance, the rights of Indigenous Peoples, and the power of large companies to make a positive contribution to society. External appointments ￮ Chair of UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Dick Boer Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director Board Committee membership: ARC | NOMCO | REMCO Dutch, 68. Appointed May 20, 2020; Deputy Chair and Senior Independent Director from May 23, 2023. Career Dick spent more than 17 years in various retail positions, for SHV Holdings N.V. in the Netherlands and abroad, and for Unigro N.V. Dick joined Ahold in 1998 as CEO of Ahold Czech Republic and was appointed President and CEO of Albert Heijn in 2000. In 2003, he also became President and CEO of Ahold's Dutch businesses. From 2006 to 2011, he was a member of the Executive Board of Ahold and served as Chief Operating Officer of Ahold Europe. Prior to the merger between Ahold and Delhaize, he served as President and CEO of Royal Ahold from 2011 to 2016. Dick was President and CEO of Ahold Delhaize from 2016 to 2018, and has also chaired the Compensation Committee of Nestlé S.A. since April 2024. In 2025, Dick became Lead Independent Director and Vice Chair of Nestlé S.A. Relevant skills and experience Dick has a deep understanding of brands and consumers, and extensive knowledge of the US and European markets, from his time leading one of the world's largest food retail groups. He has considerable experience at the forefront of retailing and customer service, which extended in more recent years to e-commerce and the digital arena. This experience is most timely as Shell focuses on the growth of our marketing activities and increasing consumer choices in energy products. Dick brings sound business judgement and a proven track record in strategic delivery to Shell, evidenced by the combination of Ahold and Delhaize. He is also passionate about sustainability and is well informed about the importance of the various stakeholder interests in this area. External appointments ￮ Non-executive Director of SHV Holdings ￮ Lead Independent Director and Vice Chair of Nestlé S.A. Wael Sawan Chief Executive Officer Board Committee membership: N/A Lebanese and Canadian, 51. Appointed January 1, 2023. Career Wael began his career at Shell in 1997 as an engineer with Petroleum Development Oman. By the mid-2000s, Wael was Managing Director and Chairman of Shell Qatar, where he oversaw Shell's business in Qatar, including its LNG and GTL divisions. Wael then became Executive Vice President of Deep Water, where he was responsible for driving its transformation into a leading business for Shell. Prior to being appointed CEO at the start of 2023, Wael joined the Executive Committee in 2019 as Upstream Director and in 2021, he became Shell's Director of Integrated Gas, and Renewables and Energy Solutions. Wael was a trustee of Shell Foundation from 2019 to the end of 2022. Relevant skills and experience Wael holds an MEng from McGill University in Montreal, Canada, and an MBA from Harvard Business School. During his Shell career, spanning more than 25 years, he has worked in Europe, Africa, Asia and the Americas, and has held roles across all of Shell's businesses. He has led several major commercial transactions, including mergers, acquisitions and divestments, as well as new business development projects. Wael is an exceptional leader, with all the qualities needed to drive Shell safely and profitably through its next phase of transition and growth. His track record of commercial, operational and transformational success reflects not only his broad, deep experience and understanding of Shell and the energy sector, but also his strategic clarity. He combines these qualities with a passion for people, which enables him to get the best from those around him. External appointments ￮ No external appointments 140 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | The Board of Shell plc continued Sinead Gorman Chief Financial Officer Board Committee membership: N/A British, 48. Appointed April 1, 2022. Career Sinead joined Shell in 1999 and has held key leadership roles in Finance. She started her Shell career in the Shell International Trading and Shipping Company based in London, UK, and then moved to the Coral Energy joint venture, in Houston, Texas, USA. Sinead worked in Mergers and Acquisitions and Treasury, based in the Netherlands, before moving back to Houston as Vice President Finance for Shales. Prior to her appointment as CFO, Sinead held the positions of Executive Vice President Finance for Upstream; Projects & Technology, as well as Integrated Gas and New Energies (now Renewables and Energy Solutions). Relevant skills and experience Sinead has an MEng from the University of Oxford and an MSc in Finance from London Business School. Sinead has more than two decades' experience of working for Shell and has held regional and global finance leadership roles across Europe and the USA. She has built a deep understanding of finance across the industry, spanning a wide range of businesses, and possesses a breadth of experience in trading, new business development and capital projects. Highly regarded for her commercial abilities and external focus, Sinead has a strong track record in cost leadership, principle-based decision-making and detailed capital stewardship. External appointments ￮ No external appointments Neil Carson OBE Independent Non-executive Director Board Committee membership: SUSCO British, 68. Appointed June 1, 2019. On December 11, 2025, the Company announced that Neil would not stand for re-election at the 2026 AGM, having served as a Director for seven years, and would step down from the Board of Shell plc. Career Neil is a former FTSE 100 CEO. He joined Johnson Matthey in 1980 where he held several senior management positions in the UK and the USA, before being appointed CEO in 2004. Since retiring from Johnson Matthey in 2014, Neil has focused on his non-executive roles. He was Chair of TT Electronics plc from 2015 until May 2020. Relevant skills and experience Neil has an engineering degree, considerable operational experience and a strong understanding of capital-intensive businesses. He has a broad industrial outlook and a thorough commercial approach combined with a practical perspective on businesses. His intuitive international point of view helps drive value in complex environments. Neil was awarded an OBE for services to the chemical industry in 2016. Neil uses his experience to bring fresh insight and industry understanding to Board discussions. External appointments ￮ Non-executive Chair of Oxford Instruments plc Ann Godbehere Independent Non-executive Director Board Committee membership: ARC (Chair) | NOMCO Canadian and British, 70. Appointed May 23, 2018. Career Ann started her career with Sun Life of Canada in 1976 in Montreal, Canada. She joined M&G Group in 1981, where she served as Senior Vice President and Controller for both life and health, and property and casualty businesses throughout North America. She joined Swiss Re in 1996, after it acquired the M&G Group, and served as CFO from 2003 to 2007. From 2008 to 2009, she was interim CFO and an Executive Director of Northern Rock bank in the initial period following its nationalisation. Ann has held non-executive director positions at Prudential plc, British American Tobacco plc, UBS AG and UBS Group AG. Ann served as a Non-executive Director of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited from 2010 until May 2019 and was also Senior Independent Director of both entities. In January 2021, Ann joined the Board of Stellantis N.V., and she chairs its audit committee. Ann joined the Board of HSBC Holdings plc in September 2023 and HSBC Bank plc in January 2025. Relevant skills and experience Ann is a former CFO and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Professional Accountants and a Fellow of the Certified General Accountants Association of Canada. She has more than 25 years of experience in the financial services sector. Ann's extensive international business experience enables her to make significant and valuable contributions and bring a global perspective to Board discussions. Ann's long and varied international business career powered by her financial acumen is reflected in the insights and constructive challenges she brings to the boardroom. As ARC Chair, Ann leverages her background to ensure robust discussions are consistently held as the ARC delivers its remit. External appointments ￮ Non-executive Director and Audit Committee Chair of Stellantis N.V. ￮ Senior Independent Director of HSBC Holdings plc ￮ Non-executive Chair of HSBC Bank plc 141 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | The Board of Shell plc continued Catherine J. Hughes Independent Non-executive Director Board Committee membership: ARC | SUSCO (Chair) Canadian and French, 63. Appointed June 1, 2017. On December 11, 2025, the Company announced that Catherine would not stand for re-election at the 2026 AGM, having served as a Director for nine years, and would step down from the Board of Shell plc. Career Catherine started her career with Schlumberger in 1986 and held key positions in countries including France, Italy, Nigeria, the UK, Canada and the USA. She was Vice President Exploration & Production Services at Husky Oil from 2005 to 2007 and Vice President Oil Sands from 2007 to 2009. Catherine joined Nexen in 2009 as Vice President Operational Services, Technology and Human Resources. She was Executive Vice President International at Nexen Inc. from January 2012 until her retirement in April 2013, where she was responsible for all oil and gas activities including exploration, production, development and project activities outside Canada. Catherine has held non-executive director positions at SNC-Lavalin Group Inc., Statoil ASA and Precision Drilling Inc. Relevant skills and experience Catherine contributes through her knowledge of industry and the ease with which she engages with other Directors and managers. With over 30 years of industry experience, she brings a geopolitical outlook and deep understanding of the industry. An engineer by training, she has also spent significant time working in senior human resources roles. The Board highly regards her perspectives on our industry and people. Catherine has a strong track record of executing operational discipline with a focus on performance metrics and a drive for excellence. Her knowledge of the technology underpinning oil and gas operations, logistics, procurement and supply chains benefits the Board as it considers projects and investment and divestment proposals. She uses her industry knowledge and her commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance and safety, ethics and compliance in her role as Chair of SUSCO. External appointments ￮ Non-executive Director of Valaris Limited Holly Keller Koeppel Independent Non-executive Director Board Committee membership: ARC | SUSCO American, 67. Appointed January 1, 2026. Career Prior to 2010, Holly held financial and executive management roles with Consolidated Natural Gas Company and American Electric Power Company, Inc. (AEP), ultimately serving as CFO of AEP. She also served as an independent non‑executive director of Reynolds American Inc. from 2008 until its acquisition by British American Tobacco plc, and as a non‑executive director of Vesuvius plc. She went on to become Co‑head of Citi Infrastructure Investors between 2010 and 2015, before moving to Corsair Capital LLC as Managing Partner and Co‑head of Infrastructure until her retirement in 2017. Holly continued her association with Corsair as Senior Advisor until April 2018. Relevant skills and experience Holly is a senior executive with over 25 years of international energy industry experience in financial and operational leadership roles. She is a former public company chief financial officer and experienced audit committee chair of UK and US listed companies. Holly brings expertise in energy, corporate finance and governance, with transformation experience in regulatory reform, portfolio restructuring and the energy transition. She brings an international perspective, with over 25 years of board and operational responsibility for London-based and global markets, as well as experience with operations in the USA and Australia. Financially literate and commercially astute, Holly combines technical expertise with operational insight, making her a valued board contributor. External appointments ￮ Senior Independent Director of Flutter Entertainment plc ￮ Senior Independent Director of British American Tobacco plc ￮ Independent Director of Core Natural Resources Inc. ￮ Independent Director of AES Corporation Jane H. Lute Independent Non-executive Director Board Committee membership: REMCO | SUSCO American, 69. Appointed May 19, 2021. Career Jane started her career in the US Army in 1978, serving in Berlin during the Cold War, on the US Central Command Staff during Operation Desert Storm, and on the National Security Council Staff under Presidents George H.W. Bush and William J. Clinton. After retiring from the military in 1994, she joined the Carnegie Corporation of New York as an Executive Director of its Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict. From 2003 to 2009, she held senior political and peacekeeping roles at the United Nations. From 2009 to 2013, Jane served as Deputy Secretary of the US Department of Homeland Security. In 2013, she established and led the Council on CyberSecurity, an independent not-for-profit organisation with a global scope, committed to the security of an open internet. From 2015 to 2016, Jane was Chief Executive Officer of the Center for Internet Security, an independent not-for-profit organisation that works to improve cyber security worldwide. From 2017 to 2021, Jane was President and Chief Executive Officer of SICPA Securink Corporation's North American operations, after which she assumed the role of Non-executive Strategic Director. From 2018 to 2021, Jane was a Non-executive Director of Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, Inc. Relevant skills and experience Jane is a proven and effective leader, who has held significant leadership roles in public service, the military and the private sector. She brings a wealth of expertise in matters of public policy, cyber security and risk management to our Board. Jane is an experienced board director, having served on large organisations' boards since 2016. These appointments have given her business perspectives across different sectors and geographical regions. She also served as chair and member on committees, including those focusing on audit, safety, service quality, environmental and sustainability, nomination and governance issues. External appointments ￮ Non-executive Director of Marsh ￮ Non-executive Director of Union Pacific Corporation ￮ Strategic Non-executive Director of SICPA Securink Corporation 142 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | The Board of Shell plc continued Sir Charles Roxburgh Independent Non-executive Director Board Committee membership: ARC British, 66. Appointed March 13, 2023. Career Sir Charles spent over 25 years at McKinsey & Company, where he held a range of senior positions. While at McKinsey, he worked for large banks, insurance companies, hedge funds and private-equity investors in strategy, risk management and organisational roles. He also led major research efforts at McKinsey and authored articles on strategy and scenario planning. Sir Charles obtained an MBA from Harvard Business School. From 2013 to 2016, Sir Charles was a Director General, Financial Services at HM Treasury and led the legislative process for the biggest reforms in the UK banking sector in a generation. From July 2016 to June 2022, he was Second Permanent Secretary, one of the most senior positions within the UK's Treasury. In this role, he was responsible for the economics ministry functions within HM Treasury including financial services, energy and infrastructure policy. He was also Chair of the HM Treasury Operating Committee. Sir Charles was Non-executive Chair of Legal and General America from 2023 to 2025. He joined Lloyd's of London as Chair in May 2025. Relevant skills and experience Sir Charles' succession of roles has placed him at the nexus between industry and government, and he has been actively involved in forging and delivering energy policies. He was an influential figure within HM Treasury in pioneering energy policy, including for COP26, and providing funding for innovative organisations to support the energy transition. He also brings additional expertise in risk management and financial regulation from his time at HM Treasury and his role at Lloyd's. External appointments ￮ Chair of Lloyd's of London ￮ Non-executive member of Global Council, Herbert Smith Freehills Kramer Clare Scherrer Independent Non-executive Director Board Committee membership: ARC | REMCO American and British, 57. Appointed January 1, 2026. Career Clare joined Goldman Sachs in New York in 1996 and was named a Partner in 2006. Over more than 25 years with the firm, she advised multinational corporations on M&A, IPOs and strategic transformations, developed its leading global water technology investment banking franchise and led coverage of diversified industrials across the Americas. She was also Chair of the Investment Banking Diversity Committee between 2010 and 2013. In 2011, Clare moved to London and became Head of EMEA Industrials, before being appointed Co‑Head of Global Industrials Investment Banking, a role she held from 2013 to 2022. During this period, she also co-chaired the Firmwide Commitments Committee between 2017 and 2022. In 2022, Clare joined Smiths Group where she served as CFO and Executive Director until 2025. Relevant skills and experience Clare has extensive experience working with capital-intensive global industrial companies, accelerating growth and increasing value. She brings deep expertise in corporate finance, risk management and transformation, with experience spanning investment banking and executive leadership. She has advised and led complex global organisations through strategic change and has a strong international perspective, having worked across Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific. Clare is financially literate and is highly skilled in governance and compliance. Her leadership capabilities, integrity and ability to provide constructive challenge make her a valuable contributor to board discussions. External appointments ￮ Independent Non-executive Director of the Legrand Group Abraham Schot Independent Non-executive Director Board Committee membership: REMCO | SUSCO Dutch, 64. Appointed October 1, 2020. Career Abraham ("Bram") joined Mercedes-Benz in the Netherlands in 1987 on an executive management programme and held several director and senior leadership roles within the company. From 2003 to 2006, he was President and CEO of DaimlerChrysler in the Netherlands. From 2006 to 2011, Bram was President and CEO of Daimler/Mercedes-Benz Italia & Holding S.p.A. From 2011 to 2016, Bram was a member of the Board of Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles and Executive Vice President responsible for Global Marketing, Sales & Services, New Business Models. In 2017, he became a member of the Board of Audi AG. Bram has been on the Board of Volkswagen AG, responsible for the Premium Car Group, CEO of Audi AG, Chair of Lamborghini and Ducati, responsible for the VW Group Commercial Operations and Vice-Chair of Porsche Holding Salzburg. Relevant skills and experience Bram has over 30 years' experience working in the automotive industry. He was part of the transformation journey at Audi AG, which saw the car company become a provider of electric vehicles that offered sustainable mobility. Bram is able to leverage this knowledge as Shell navigates its own journey through the energy transition. Bram brings his high regard for integrity and compliance to board meetings. His studies have encompassed innovation and organisational effectiveness, geopolitical environments, shareholder value, corporate social responsibility and risk management, which are all valued management tools. External appointments ￮ Non-executive Director of Signify N.V. ￮ Non-executive Director of Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation ￮ Non-executive Director of Compagnie Financière Richemont SA 143 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | The Board of Shell plc continued Leena Srivastava Independent Non-executive Director Board Committee membership: SUSCO Indian, 65. Appointed March 13, 2023. Career Leena has dedicated her career to sustainability research and policy matters, and has held positions on boards of scale. She was Deputy Director General for Science at the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis. Prior to this, she was an Executive Director at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), a not-for-profit policy research organisation working on energy, environment and sustainable development, and then Vice Chancellor of the TERI School of Advanced Studies – a research university focused on sustainability education based in India. She has served on committees and organisations at international and national levels, including as energy and climate adviser for the United Nations and Member of the Advisory Committee at Future Earth. Relevant skills and experience Leena has been an independent board member of several Indian companies: Reliance Infrastructure Ltd, Bharti Infratel, Shree Cement Ltd, and Torrent Pharmaceuticals. Leena has served on sustainability advisory boards of multinational companies, such as The Coca-Cola Company, Caterpillar Inc. and Suez Environment. She recognises the challenges large organisations face in managing stakeholder priorities, including balancing business, government and societal needs, while pursuing a sustainability agenda. As a member of the Cement Sustainability Initiative of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, she provided a pragmatic perspective on how to support the sector through its decarbonisation journey. She has a strong network of relationships in multiple global institutions focused on sustainability and an understanding of the issues the energy sector faces. External appointments ￮ Member of the Independent Council of Climate Experts of Edelman ￮ Advisory board member of NAMTECH — a private technical education institute in India ￮ Advisory board member of Prowess Equity Funds - advisor on common advisory board for two funds Cyrus Taraporevala Independent Non-executive Director Board Committee membership: ARC | REMCO (Chair) American, 59. Appointed March 2, 2023. Career Cyrus was President and Chief Executive Officer of State Street Global Advisors from 2017 to 2022. Cyrus has held numerous leadership roles in asset management including at Fidelity, BNY Mellon, Legg Mason and Citigroup. Cyrus was previously a partner at McKinsey & Company, based in New York and Copenhagen. He serves on the boards of two non-profit organisations: The Trustees of Reservations, a Massachusetts-based conservation organisation, and GBH, a public media producer, distributor, broadcaster and content creator. Relevant skills and experience Cyrus brings a unique mix of strategic perspectives and business skills. He has significant experience in driving organic and inorganic growth, and company transformations. He is one of the most senior professionals in the asset management industry and has successfully led and grown global businesses of scale. He played a critical role in affirming State Street's reputation as both a stalwart and a pioneer within the sector. At times, Cyrus was helping to implement change amid market uncertainty caused by geopolitical tensions and an evolving regulatory environment. Cyrus also possesses a unique vantage point on core board-related issues impacting public companies including sustainability. He has spoken about and published multiple articles on climate risk and other aspects of sustainability. He is credited with strengthening the sustainability credentials of State Street Global Advisors. External appointments ￮ Non-executive Director of Bridgepoint Group plc ￮ Non-executive Director of Pfizer Inc. Sean Ashley Company Secretary British, 54. Appointed July 1, 2024. Career Sean qualified as a solicitor in 1998 and joined Shell from private practice in 2006. Since then, he has held a variety of roles in the Shell Group, including leading the Shell Legal team on Shell's recommended combination with BG Group plc and a number of Associate General Counsel positions. Sean currently leads the Corporate Secretariat and the Group Disclosures and Securities Team in the UK, USA and the Netherlands Relevant skills and experience Sean is an experienced senior leader who has significant experience across a broad range of legal, regulatory, governance and compliance matters, including UK listed company securities and disclosure laws, UK corporate governance and reporting requirements and public company M&A. 144 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | The Board of Shell plc continued Director independence All Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement. The Chair is not subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code's independence test other than on appointment. Attendance The Board met 10 times during 2025. Five of the 10 meetings were held physically -- one meeting in Australia, and four meetings in London, UK. Five meetings were held virtually. Attendance in 2025 for all Board meetings is given in the table [A]. Board member Scheduled meetings attended Ad-hoc meetings attended Dick Boer 8/8 2/2 Neil Carson OBE [B] 8/8 1/2 Ann Godbehere 8/8 2/2 Sinead Gorman 8/8 2/2 Catherine J. Hughes 8/8 2/2 Jane H. Lute [C] 8/8 1/2 Sir Andrew Mackenzie 8/8 2/2 Sir Charles Roxburgh 8/8 2/2 Wael Sawan 8/8 2/2 Bram Schot [D] 7/8 1/2 Leena Srivastava 8/8 2/2 Cyrus Taraporevala 8/8 2/2 [A] For attendance at committee meetings during the year, please refer to individual committee reports. [B] Neil Carson OBE was absent from the ad-hoc February 2025 Board meeting due to personal circumstances. [C] Jane H. Lute was absent from the ad-hoc May 2025 Board meeting due to personal circumstances. [D] Bram Schot was absent from the ad-hoc February 2025 and September 2025 Board meetings due to scheduled business commitments. 145 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance Executive Committee The Executive Committee of the Company comprises the Executive Directors, Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman, and those listed below (see "Governance Framework" on page 149). Philippa Bounds Chief Legal Officer British, 55. Appointed July 1, 2023. Career Philippa joined Shell in 2005 after a decade of working at English and American law firms, specialising in structured finance. She has held legal roles across Shell's businesses, including Senior Legal Counsel in Gas and Power and in Corporate, and Vice President in Projects & Technology and Upstream. She previously served as General Counsel for Trading and Supply. She has also lived and worked across Europe and Asia, broadening her global legal and regulatory experience. She has also held several advisory roles, including special adviser to the EU Commission's Director General Internal Markets on securities laws. Peter Costello President, Upstream British, 60. Appointed April 1, 2025. Career Peter held geographically diverse senior roles across a range of BG Group's businesses, including President and Country Head, Kazakhstan. Following Shell's combination with BG Group, Peter joined Shell in 2016 as Vice President, Nigeria and Gabon. Prior to being appointed Executive Vice President, Conventional Oil and Gas in November 2021, he served as Senior Vice President, Conventional Oil and Gas. Cederic Cremers President, Integrated Gas Dutch, 47. Appointed April 1, 2025. Career Cederic joined Shell's Retail business in 2002. Prior to being appointed Executive Vice President, Liquefied Natural Gas in August 2021, he held a variety of financial and business leadership roles across Shell's businesses. These roles include General Manager, Shell Chemicals Europe; Vice President, Commercial and New Business Development, Asia; and Executive Vice President and Country Chair, Russia. Machteld de Haan President, Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions Dutch, 52. Appointed April 1, 2025. Career Machteld joined Shell in 1998 and has had several leadership and geographically diverse roles across the Downstream portfolio including Mobility, Strategy, Fleet Solutions, Lubricants and most recently Chemicals and Products. Prior to being appointed to lead Chemicals and Products, Machteld was Senior Vice President, Lubricants Americas, which included being the CEO of Pennzoil-Quaker State Company, and subsequently became Executive Vice President, Global Lubricants. Andrew Smith President, Trading and Supply Australian, 61. Appointed April 1, 2025. Career Andrew joined Shell in 1986 as a refinery engineer and has worked across all of Shell's integrated value chains, including leading Shell's petrochemical manufacturing business in Singapore. He subsequently became Vice President, Downstream in Australia and then Executive Vice President, Upstream and Country Chair, where he led the expansion of Shell's Liquid Natural Gas and Onshore Gas businesses in Australia. Andrew was appointed Executive Vice President, Trading and Supply in 2017. Rachel Solway Chief Human Resources and Corporate Officer British, 52. Appointed January 1, 2024. Career Rachel joined Shell in 1995 in Upstream in Aberdeen, Scotland. She has since held HR roles in manufacturing, LPG, lubricants and chemicals. In 2016, Rachel was appointed Executive Vice President HR Integrated Gas. She became the Executive Vice President HR Upstream in 2020 before being appointed interim Executive Vice President HR Organisation Development & Learning in May 2023. 146 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Executive Committee continued Changes to the Executive Committee Leavers (on March 31, 2025) ￮ Huibert Vigeveno (Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions Director) ￮ Zoë Yujnovich (Integrated Gas and Upstream Director) Leaver (on February 28, 2026) ￮ Robin Mooldijk (Projects & Technology Director) Joiners (on April 1, 2025) ￮ Machteld de Haan (President, Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions) ￮ Andrew Smith (President, Trading and Supply) ￮ Cederic Cremers (President, Integrated Gas) ￮ Peter Costello (President, Upstream) As announced on March 4, 2025, with effect from April 1, 2025, leaders on the Executive Committee representing Integrated Gas; Upstream; Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions; Trading and Supply; and Projects & Technology, are each referred to as President of their respective organisations, rather than "Director". Functional leaders on the Executive Committee are referred to as Chief Officer of their respective functions. The changes to the Executive Committee structure were designed to support our strategy to deliver more value with less emissions, and as part of our ongoing transformation. Shell's financial reporting segments remain Integrated Gas; Upstream; Marketing; Chemicals and Products; Renewables and Energy Solutions; and Corporate. On January 20, 2026, Shell announced that significant progress had been made against the previously announced plan to integrate the technical divisions, which today make up the Projects & Technology organisation, into the business lines; and that as a result of the progress we have made, Robin Mooldijk, President, Projects & Technology will step down after 35 years of distinguished service with Shell, effective February 28, 2026. Following Robin's departure, Shell's Executive Committee has reduced in size from nine to eight members. 147 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance Board activities Management and Directors The Company has a single-tier Board of Directors headed by a Chair, with management led by a CEO. See "The Board of Shell plc" on pages 140-145 and "Executive Committee" on pages 146-147. Executive Committee The current composition of the Executive Committee is as follows: Executive Committee [A] [C] Wael Sawan CEO [B] Sinead Gorman CFO [B] Philippa Bounds Chief Legal Officer Peter Costello President, Upstream Cederic Cremers President, Integrated Gas Machteld de Haan President, Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions Andrew Smith President, Trading and Supply Rachel Solway Chief Human Resources and Corporate Officer [A] Designated an Executive Officer pursuant to US Exchange Act Rule 3b-7. Beneficially owns less than 1% of outstanding classes of securities. [B] Director of the Company. [C] On January 20, 2026, Shell announced that Robin Mooldijk, President, Projects and Technology will step down after 35 years of distinguished service with Shell, effective February 28, 2026. Following Robin's departure Shell's Executive Committee has reduced in size from nine to eight members. Corporate governance requirements outside the UK In addition to complying with applicable corporate governance requirements in the UK, the Company complies with the rules of Euronext Amsterdam and Dutch securities laws because of its listing on that exchange. The Company, likewise, adheres to US securities laws and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules and regulations because its securities are registered in the USA and listed on the NYSE. Board activities The Board works to a yearly meeting plan with corresponding agendas and reading materials, provided digitally in advance of meetings, to support the Board in its oversight of the Group's operations and management. Standing agenda items include reports from the CEO, the CFO and the Chair of each Board committee. Other updates throughout the year come from various businesses and key functions, including Investor Relations; Health, Safety, Security and Environment; Information Technology; Human Resources; and Legal, as well as the Company Secretary. The Board also considers and approves the quarterly, half-year and full-year financial results; shareholder distributions and the associated announcements; investment, divestment and/or financing proposals; and tracks performance. In 2025, following EY non-compliance with independence rules related to audit partner rotation requirements, the Board considered and approved amended Form 20-Fs for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2024 following consideration of the same by the Audit and Risk Committee. Additionally, the Board reviews the Group's annual Operating Plan, including activities undertaken designed to meet the Group's climate-related targets and ambition. To enable purposeful discussion and focus on particular aspects of agenda topics, including the impact on key stakeholders, Directors have an opportunity to specify information they require to be provided in advance of Board meetings. During the year, where possible, Non-executive Directors conduct site visits. The visits are designed to provide them with a deeper insight into certain business operations. Board offsite Each June, the Board and Executive Committee (EC) participate in a three-day programme, known as the "Board offsite", which takes place in a priority country setting and serves to improve Board effectiveness and strategic decision-making. The 2025 Board offsite was held in person in Australia over three days. The event sought to deliver insights into business strategy and operations. It also incorporated a visit to strategic assets and facilitated dialogue with the Australia country chair, employees, contractors and external stakeholders, including customers and suppliers. Australia is an important heartland for Shell. The Board and EC members conducted a deep dive into each of Shell's businesses in the country. Around this theme, the event provided for the following key discussion and engagement opportunities: ￮ visits to the QGC upstream assets and the QGC LNG facility on Curtis Island; ￮ engagements with staff; and ￮ discussions with global energy-geopolitical experts. Director induction and training Following appointment, Directors receive a tailored induction programme. This includes meetings with members of the Executive Committee and relevant senior leaders (including key risk owners) and, where appropriate, site visits, to support a detailed understanding of Shell's strategy, operations and principal risks. Induction is phased and prioritised to align with forthcoming Board and committee agenda items. New Non-executive Directors are provided with a digital onboarding book, which complements the digital Directors' Handbook and includes key background materials, business overviews and links to Shell's core values and relevant external publications (e.g. CMD25 and Shell Scenarios). All Directors receive ongoing briefings and development throughout the year to maintain knowledge of the business, risk environment and relevant governance and regulatory developments. 148 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance Governance framework Board of Directors The Company has a single-tier Board of Directors headed by a Chair, with executive management led by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The names of the Directors who held office during the year can be found on pages 140-145. Information on the Directors who are seeking appointment or reappointment is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting. There is no fixed number of times that the Board may meet in one year. During 2025, the Board met 10 times (nine times during 2024) and, as detailed in the Strategic Report and activities undertaken throughout the year, worked to promote the long-term success of the Company, generating value for shareholders and contributing to wider society. Further information on the Board's work and assessments in relation to strategy, culture, engagement with stakeholders, and its workforce can be found in this section. The Board's responsibilities are governed by a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and include: ￮ approval of overall strategy and oversight of management. ￮ changes to the corporate and capital structure. ￮ approval of financial reporting and controls, including interim dividends. ￮ oversight of risk management and internal control. ￮ approval of significant contracts. ￮ determining succession planning and new Board appointments. ￮ determining the remuneration policy for the Chair, CEO and Executive Directors and remuneration for Non-executive Directors. ￮ corporate governance matters. Board Committees Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) Sustainability Committee (SUSCO) Nomination and Succession Committee (NOMCO) Remuneration Committee (REMCO) More information on the composition of each of the Board committees, their purpose, roles and activities during the year is provided on the following pages: ARC 159-168 SUSCO 157-158 NOMCO 154-156 REMCO 169-175 149 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Governance framework continued Board of Directors continued Division of responsibilities The roles of the Chair, a non-executive role, and the CEO are separate and clearly defined. The Board has agreed on their respective responsibilities and set these out in writing. These documents are available on request from the Company Secretary. Chair ￮ Responsible for ensuring that the Board and its committees function effectively. One way in which this is achieved is by ensuring Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information. ￮ Responsible for making sure that there is an adequate induction and training programme followed by all Directors (see page 148), with assistance from the Company Secretary. Deputy Chair/Senior Independent Director ￮ Sounding board for the Chair. ￮ Serves as an intermediary for the other Directors and shareholders. ￮ Leads the annual appraisal of the Chair's performance. Non-executive Directors ￮ Appointed by the Board or by shareholders at general meetings and, in accordance with the Code, seek re-election by shareholders on an annual basis. ￮ Letters of appointment refer to a specific term of office in accordance with the provisions of the Code and the Company's Articles of Association. ￮ Upon appointment, Non-executive Directors confirm they are able to allocate sufficient time to meet the expectations of the role. Appointments are subject to a minimum of three months' notice of termination, and there is no compensation provision for early termination. ￮ The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range and balance of skills and international business experience. Through their contribution to the Board and Board committee meetings, respectively, they are expected to challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring independent judgement on issues of performance and risk. ￮ At every Board meeting, time is set aside for the Chair and Non-executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors being present. The Non-executive Directors discuss, among other matters, the performance of individual Executive Directors. A number of Non-executive Directors also meet major shareholders over the course of the year. Executive Management Chief Executive Officer (CEO) ￮ has overall responsibility for the implementation of the strategy approved by the Board, the operational management of the Company and the business enterprise connected with it. ￮ is supported in this by the EC that he chairs. Executive Committee (EC) ￮ operates under the direction of the CEO in support of his responsibility for the overall management of Shell's business. The CEO has final authority in all matters of management that are not within the duties and authorities of the Board or of the shareholders' general meeting. ￮ members are listed in the Executive Committee biographies on pages 146-147. Governance documents available on shell.com/investors: ￮ Articles of Association ￮ Matters Reserved for the Board ￮ Board Committee Terms of Reference ￮ Modern Slavery Act Statement ￮ Shell General Business Principles ￮ Shell Code of Conduct ￮ Code of Ethics for Executive Directors and Senior Financial Officers 150 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Governance framework continued Senior Succession and Resourcing Review The annual Senior Succession and Resourcing Review focused on the strength of senior leadership and plans for its development and succession, while highlighting the breadth, depth and diversity of its pipeline, the developing profile of the leadership cadre, and recruitment and attrition levels. The Senior Succession and Resourcing Review also highlighted the effectiveness of succession planning, the impact of its associated execution, and the data-driven, integrated approach to leadership and leadership development. The review continues to focus on proactive management of Shell's talent pipeline, and on advancing Shell's diversity agenda with increased attention on gender, race and ethnicity, LGBT+ and disabilities. Shell Performance Framework The Shell Performance Framework is the overarching framework we use to deliver our strategy. It applies to all Shell companies and provides a consistent approach for how each company in Shell operates. It seeks to empower each company in a way that is fit for purpose, while delivering on our overall objectives. It emphasises the value of a "whole systems" approach to our business activities across Shell along with the important role that culture plays in achieving Shell's objectives. The Shell Performance Framework The Shell Performance Framework supports the delivery of sustainable business outcomes. In pursuit of this, consideration is given to both the context in which Shell operates and key elements of direction-setting, including, for example, Shell's strategy and the Shell General Business Principles. Delivery of the desired outcomes is then pursued by leveraging our Performance Culture, i.e. the shared values, practices and beliefs of our employees. This is influenced by decisions on: ￮ Structure and Accountability – how we are organised and governed and the associated roles and responsibilities. ￮ People and Skills – our workforce composition, such as its size, diversity and location, and the skills required to deliver Shell's objectives. ￮ Processes and Systems – how we transform inputs into outputs in a controlled manner, leveraging data and systems as appropriate. This also includes the standards that further define the boundaries within which Shell operates. ￮ Mindset and Behaviours – this includes the role of leadership and Shell's values, beliefs and behaviours, as set out, for example, in the Code of Conduct. At the heart of the Shell Performance Framework is the Improvement Cycle, which integrates performance management, risk management, including controls and assurance, learning and improvement. It follows a "Plan-Do-Check-Adjust" approach and helps to drive a consistent way of working and improving. 151 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Governance framework continued Risk management and controls The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining an effective risk management and internal control framework, and determining the nature and extent of the principal risks that Shell is willing to take in order to achieve its long-term strategic objectives. The Shell Performance Framework sets out the overarching approach to how we manage risks in Shell. This approach, together with Shell's principal and emerging risks, is described on page 23. Board review of principal and emerging risks The Board confirms it has carried out a robust assessment of Shell's principal risks, including a robust process for identifying, evaluating and managing these principal risks. The Board also confirms it has carried out a robust assessment of Shell's emerging risks. These assessments have been in place throughout 2025 and up to the date of this Report, are reviewed by the Board and accord with the Financial Reporting Council guidance on risk management, internal control and related reporting. See "Risk management and Risk factors" on pages 23-32. Review of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control The Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework, the integrity of financial reporting, and consideration of compliance matters. See "Audit and Risk Committee Report" on pages 159-168. The ARC receives regular reports and updates on financial, operational, reporting, compliance and risk management and internal control matters throughout the year. It is helped with its monitoring and review responsibilities by reports of: ￮ the Executive Vice President Controller and Finance Operations; ￮ the Chief Internal Auditor; ￮ the Chair of the Upstream Reserves Committee ￮ the Chairs of the Disclosure Committee and the External Reporting Control Committee; ￮ the Executive Vice President Information and Digital Technology and Chief Information Officer; ￮ the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer; and ￮ the External Auditor. The reports from the Chief Internal Auditor outline notable internal audits and those with a significant impact on the effectiveness of the framework of internal control. The ARC also reviews significant incidents on the above topics including business integrity issues. The Chair of the ARC provides regular updates to the Board after each of its meetings. These updates cover, among other matters, the respective aspects of controls that it monitors in accordance with its Terms of Reference. During and after such sessions, the Board has the opportunity to request further information and ask clarifying questions. The Board also receives the approved minutes of the ARC. In addition to the Board's own reviews and deep dives on the Group's principal and emerging risks, these help the Board with its ongoing monitoring and annual review of material controls. The Executive Committee (EC) and the Board supported by the ARC conduct an annual review of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework. This is based on: (i) assessments by the Executive Vice President Controller and Finance Operations and the Chief Internal Auditor including the outcome of the Group Assurance Letter process, (ii) the outcomes of Group-level risk reviews, and (iii) their own insights and reviews during the year. As part of the Group Assurance Letter process, each member of the EC conducts a structured internal assessment of compliance with legal, ethical and other requirements of the Shell Performance Framework. The Board reviews and discusses the insights and conclusions from this annual assessment. The Board confirms that it has conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of Shell's system of risk management and internal control in respect of 2025, and that this review covered all material controls, including financial, operational, reporting and compliance controls. Provision 29 of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code During 2025 the EC, the ARC and the Board considered readiness for compliance with the new Provision 29 of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code which, among other things, will require the Board to make a declaration of the effectiveness of Shell's material controls in the 2026 Annual Report. Activities undertaken in relation to this build on the existing risk management and internal control framework and include: (i) a review of material controls for each principal risk; and (ii) plans to apply the Provision 29 principles and process as part of the 2025 risk management and internal control assessment ahead of the formal attestation to be made in the 2026 Annual Report. Risks The Board reviewed reports on Shell's top risks, external and internal trends and emerging risks. Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Report Data and insights include information from the Shell Global Helpline, the Shell Ethics and Compliance organisation and the Shell People Survey. The ARC is kept updated when matters highlighted through the Shell Global Helpline are investigated. The ARC is also informed about the associated remediation. See "Audit and Risk Committee Report" on page 159-168. Assurance activities Assurance activities, including items raised by businesses and functions (through the Group Assurance Letters process) and assurance (from Internal Audit, HSSE, Ethics and Compliance, Reserves Assurance and Reporting, Financial and Non-Financial Reporting), provide additional evidence to the Board of the commitment to high standards of risk management and internal control. The assurance activities ensure that work can be done safely, within regulatory frameworks. The information provided within these reports further supports the Board's annual review of the effectiveness of the Group's risk management and internal control framework, and feeds into the Group scorecard, against which staff bonuses are calculated. 152 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Governance framework continued Board Performance Review Process Note: The below activities were undertaken by Jan Hall of No.4. [A] Jan Hall also attended the Board discussion, during which feedback was also provided to Committee Chairs. Board performance review process As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code every three years, the 2025 Board performance review (the 2025 Review) was conducted differently from the reviews undertaken in 2024 and 2023. The 2025 Review comprised an externally facilitated performance review by an external provider, Jan Hall of No 4, through one-on-one interviews with the Board members and key individuals, as opposed to the questionnaire approach used in 2024 and 2023. Having reflected on progress made in recent years, the Nomination and Succession Committee concluded that appointing Jan Hall provided an opportunity to reflect and further build upon improvements made since the last externally facilitated review in 2022 (the 2022 Review), which was also undertaken by Jan Hall. Jan Hall and No 4 have no connection or relationship to the Company or to any Director. Planning for the Review The 2025 Review process started with briefing meetings where Jan Hall met the Chair, CEO, Chief Human Resources & Corporate Officer (CHRCO) and Company Secretary. These meetings helped Jan Hall further understand the Board and how its effectiveness has developed since the 2022 Review. Jan Hall then formulated a comprehensive brief for the 2025 Review process and prepared a discussion guideline which formed the basis of her one-on-one meetings. The discussion guideline was sent to the individuals participating in the 2025 Review ahead of her meetings with them. Discussion and Observation (Stage 1) In January 2026, detailed interviews were conducted with every Board member, the Company Secretary, External Audit partner, and three members of the Executive Committee (EC) on an open, confidential and unattributed basis. Jan Hall observed Board and Committee meetings, and reviewed the materials presented to Directors ahead of these meetings. Analysis (Stage 2) An outline draft report synthesising and summarising feedback from the input, and making recommendations was prepared and shared with the Chair, CEO, CHRCO and Company Secretary for comment ahead of the Board discussion referred to below. Outcomes (Stage 3) Jan Hall facilitated a discussion of the main themes and findings of the 2025 Review with the Board at a meeting held in February 2026. Jan Hall separately discussed the 2025 Review outcomes on the Chair's performance with the Senior Independent Director (SID), who then led a separate discussion with the Non-executive Directors (in the absence of the Chair) before the SID met with the Chair to provide him feedback on both the 2025 Review and the discussions with the Non-executive Directors. Subsequently, Jan Hall updated and concluded her report which was then shared with, and approved by, the Board in February 2026. Overall, the Board was found to have improved and evolved significantly over the last three years in terms of its focus and effectiveness and has moved its processes in line with the business, with simpler agendas, run with discipline. Risk management is sharper. The Non-executive Directors and the Executive Directors have very good relationships, and together the Board deeply embraces the strategic challenges ahead. Further improvements identified were merely to fine-tune an already effective Board. The Committees were considered to be well chaired and operated, with minor opportunities identified for improvement. Chair Evaluation The SID communicated feedback to the Chair. The Chair was regarded as an exceptional Chair who has driven significant change in the effectiveness of the Board, who is deeply committed and adds considerable value for Shell. He cares deeply about people, is well respected and has maintained strong relationships with Executive and Non-executive Directors. His clear communication, openness and desire to bring all voices into discussions continues to be valued across the Board. Delivery against the 2025 ambitions The Board focused on Capital Markets Day 2025 (CMD25), which took place on March 25, 2025, as well as longer-term strategy, and received regular updates on the progress made against the Group's targets and ambition. Non-executive Directors frequently engaged with EC members outside the formal Board setting, for example during the Board offsite in Australia and over dedicated lunch engagements organised for EC and Board members on Board Committee days. The Board received presentations from external speakers as part of the offsite programme. Planned enhancements for 2026 The following were identified as areas of focus for 2026: (i) continue support for the drive for performance, discipline, focus, simplicity, and faster and more effective decision-making throughout Shell; (ii) maintain focus on strategic choices for Shell, particularly for the medium to longer term; (iii) further enhance the Board's ways of workings and governance, including by continued use of small group virtual workshops and further enhance the informal Board and EC interface outside the Board room; and (iv) sharpen focus on technology and AI, including in the Board environment. Reflecting on and in support of the above, a further review on Board effectiveness and dynamics is proposed for around the September 2026 Board meeting. 153 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance Nomination and Succession Committee Focus areas for 2025 ￮ Non-executive Director and Executive Committee succession. ￮ Externally facilitated 2025 Board performance review. ￮ Talent engagements with key staff and succession candidates. Priorities for 2026 ￮ Non-executive Director and Executive Committee succession. ￮ Talent engagements with key staff and succession candidates. ￮ Board effectiveness and dynamics review. Sir Andrew Mackenzie Chair of the Nomination and Succession Committee Committee membership Attendance during 2025 Committee member Member since Meetings attended % of meetings attended Sir Andrew Mackenzie (Chair of the Committee) October 1, 2020 4/4 100% Dick Boer May 19, 2021 4/4 100% Ann Godbehere October 27, 2021 4/4 100% Purpose The Nomination and Succession Committee (NOMCO) leads the process for appointments to the Board and Senior Management [A] positions, ensures plans are in place for orderly, well-planned succession and oversees the development of a diverse succession pipeline of candidates. It also reviews the Company's policy, targets and strategy on diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I), and monitors the effectiveness of these initiatives. It makes recommendations to the Board on corporate governance guidelines, as referred to in the Chair's introduction. [A] In this section of the report, "Senior Management" refers to the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary, as defined by the UK Corporate Governance Code unless stated otherwise. Talent management and succession The NOMCO is fully engaged with the end-to-end talent management and senior succession planning approach that is deployed within Shell. It plays a key role in senior succession and resourcing. Retaining in-depth knowledge of the individuals within the talent pipeline is a NOMCO priority. The NOMCO makes time to personally meet and engage with numerous individuals within the pipeline. The NOMCO's oversight and input extend from recruitment to leadership identification and from leadership development to leadership appointment, all of which are underpinned by clearly articulated talent priorities and a commitment to advancing DE&I across Shell. The NOMCO manages appointments to the Board and supports Senior Management succession under a structured, proactive methodology. The processes have clear and agreed selection principles for short-, medium- and long-term succession and are aligned with Shell's strategic priorities. For Non-executive Director succession, the NOMCO continues to follow the Board Composition Principles, adding factors as they evolve. These principles include both quantitative and qualitative principles, considering: ￮ the overall aspired Board composition and diversity of age; gender; race; ethnicity; educational, social, geographical and professional backgrounds; skills; knowledge; and experience that align with the Company's strategy including, among other criteria, consideration of the skills and strengths needed for the energy transition; and ￮ the values and behaviours expected of Directors. During the year, the Board Composition Principles were reviewed and updated. The NOMCO also focused on the future needs for the Board's composition, including size and tenure, skills and experience, and the DE&I requirements of the UK Listing Rules, FTSE Women Leaders Review and the Parker Review. The current size and composition of the Board was considered to be appropriate, also taking account of Committee memberships and the Board and Committee changes announced on December 11, 2025, and no changes were considered necessary as a result of the Board Performance Review. Greater flexibility around Non-executive tenure continues to be an area of focus. Although Shell does not publish the Board Composition Principles, its Board Diversity Policy (which was first published in March 2024 following recommendation by NOMCO) is available on the Company's website. This Policy highlights that Shell aims for a gender balance on the Board, with at least one senior Board position (Chair, CEO, Senior Independent Director, or CFO) held by a woman. In addition, Shell's target is to maintain the representation of both men and women at, or above, a minimum of 40% [B]. We believe that this allows Shell to be truly representative of all genders and gender identities and provides flexibility during periods of change. Further, Shell aims to maintain or exceed having at least one Board member from a minority ethnic background. For more details on the progress against these targets see page 155. [B] These targets align with those set by the FCA under the UK Listing Rules, and all such targets on Board diversity remain subject to applicable equalities legislation, including the Equality Act 2010 (as amended from time to time) and its provisions on discrimination. 154 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Nomination and Succession Committee continued See "Our People" on page 131. For Senior Management succession, the selection principles include process-specific elements, such as a clear and proactive approach to identifying and developing succession candidates. The principles also outline the long-term structured nature of the succession planning process. There is also strong focus on ensuring that the principles reflect the leadership qualities required for future business success and that they advance the progress of diversity in all its forms. Senior Management principles feature in the NOMCO's review of the succession plans which occurs routinely in Committee meetings. Using the principles, the NOMCO implements any changes through a well-defined and diligent process with overall Board engagement. The NOMCO agrees on candidate profiles and meets prospective candidates well ahead of any selection decision being necessary. It also engages the Board early in the process to ensure Directors have an opportunity to meet and assess prospective candidates. Consequently, some of the leaders with whom the NOMCO and Board engaged extensively in the past became members of the Board (Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman) or the Executive Committee (Andrew Smith, Machteld de Haan, Cederic Cremers and Peter Costello whose appointments became effective April 1, 2025). During 2025, the NOMCO undertook its annual in-depth look at the status and succession plans for Senior Management within Shell, along with the review of the health of the talent pipeline. In this regard, the Board also reflected on the delayering of the most senior leadership structure to reflect the three primary areas of business value – Integrated Gas; Upstream; and Downstream, Renewables and Energy Solutions, whilst also elevating Trading and Supply, which is a key enabler across the organisation. Diversity of leadership The NOMCO recognises that continuing to improve all types of diversity at each level of the Shell Group is crucial. Shell aims to be an inclusive workplace where everyone feels valued and respected and has a strong sense of belonging. The NOMCO's review of diversity objectives and strategies for the Shell Group as a whole also monitors the impact of diversity and inclusion initiatives. In February 2021, Shell published its aspirations for DE&I with a focus on four areas of gender, race and ethnicity, LGBT+ and disability inclusion. For more details on the progress against our ambitions for women hired and women in Senior Leadership, see page 131. "Senior Leadership" is a Shell-specific measure based on compensation grade levels. This is different from what we are required to report under the Code, which is female representation in Senior Management and their direct reports, where the percentage as at December 31, 2025, was 35%. Nationality diversity, such as Asian and American talent, continues to be managed in accordance with the business outlook and we have a strong focus on progressing race and ethnic minority representation. In line with the Parker Review recommendations, Shell aimed to achieve 15% ethnic minority group representation in Senior Management [C] by 2027, which has been achieved in advance of the target date. We will now aim to achieve 17% by 2027. As at the end of 2025, ethnic minority representation in Senior Management was 16%. [C] Senior Management refers to senior leadership based in the UK, measured based on compensation grade, and aligned with our self-identification data collection and processes. Although the NOMCO monitors Shell's organisational DE&I strategies and initiatives, it also holds itself accountable for the Board's own diversity and inclusion. Back in 2020, the Board's diverse composition met the Hampton-Alexander requirements (now FTSE Women Leaders) and, in 2025, it met the Parker Review's objectives and the UK Listing Rule diversity targets by reflecting 42% women representation with the CFO position held by a woman and three Directors from a minority ethnic background. See "Our people" on page 131 for more information on DE&I in Shell. The People and Culture Strategy and diversity, equity and inclusion Diversity continued to be a key area of focus during the year. The Board Diversity Policy is aligned to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and includes our targets for Board diversity, as well as complementing Shell's wider diversity policies and embracing Shell's values, Code of Conduct and sustainability goals. Currently, this policy is not applied to the individual Committees, although we strive to apply diverse representation across the Committees. DE&I across Committee membership remains an ongoing consideration. A copy of the Board Diversity Policy is available on our website: shell.com/investors/environmental-social-and-governance/board-of-directors. In relation to Board director appointments and diversity, the NOMCO oversees the development of a diverse pipeline for succession to the Board and monitors that all Board appointments are subject to a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure. Appointments and succession plans are based on merit and objective criteria and promote diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity. To this end, the NOMCO is responsible for engaging an independent executive search consultant, who assists in preparing shortlists of candidates, co-ordinating interviews and seeking references. In accordance with the Board Diversity Policy, the NOMCO only engages with external search firms who are able to align with Shell's approach to DE&I in identifying suitable individuals from diverse pools of candidates. Under the Board Diversity Policy, the Board commits to: ￮ Ensuring an inclusive environment: Through inclusive behaviours and practices, we aim to create an environment in which every Board member feels valued, respected and empowered to contribute fully. ￮ Ensuring support for External Best Practices: The Board endorses and supports external best practices, such as the FTSE Women Leaders Review, Parker Review and others, to maintain and enhance diversity within the Board. ￮ Ensuring that Board appointments are managed with rigour and transparency: Candidates are evaluated based on merit, skills, experience, qualifications, performance and business considerations, with due regard for diversity factors. ￮ Ensuring regular Board composition reviews: The Board regularly assesses the composition of the Board, including age, gender, race, ethnicity, educational, social, geographical and professional backgrounds, skills, knowledge and experience, making recommendations for necessary adjustments. Shell has an inclusive Board environment, comprising individuals that are suitably qualified. They have the required skills, industry expertise, breadth of perspective and high-quality decision-making capabilities to support the strategy and overall direction of Shell. See "The Board of Shell plc" on pages 140-145 for details about the skills and backgrounds of individual members. From a gender perspective, as at December 31, 2025, the Board comprised five female directors and seven male directors, which 155 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Nomination and Succession Committee continued equates to 42% female representation (2024: 42%, 2023: 42%). Following the appointments of Holly Keller Koeppel and Clare Scherrer effective January 1, 2026, there is 50% female representation on the Board. Two of the four Board committees are currently chaired by a female director. In respect of other forms of diversity, three members of the Board self-identify as being from an ethnic minority background [D]. In accordance with the Board Diversity Policy, the Board firmly believes that diversity fosters a broader range of perspectives, resulting in improved Board effectiveness, decision-making and outcomes. [D] Ethnic minority refers to an individual who self-identifies as Asian, Black, Mixed/multiple, or other ethnic minority group, in line with UK Office for National Statistics classifications Committee activity In addition to its considerations regarding succession, the NOMCO made recommendations on corporate governance guidelines, monitored compliance with corporate governance requirements and made recommendations on corporate governance-related disclosures. The NOMCO continues to monitor and review this area, considering whether and how current Company governance matters should be strengthened. Further insight on some of the NOMCO's areas of consideration in 2025 is provided below. Topic of discussion/example of Committee activity Succession [A] Recommendation ￮ Appointments of Holly Keller Koeppel and Clare Scherrer as Non-executive Directors. ￮ Changes to the composition of the Board Committees. Oversight ￮ Supported the appointments of Andrew Smith, Machteld de Haan, Cederic Cremers and Peter Costello to the Executive Committee. ￮ Shell diversity, equity and inclusion and the Board Diversity Policy. Engagement ￮ Talent engagements. Topic of discussion/example of Committee activity Talent overview and senior succession review Shell Senior Succession and Resourcing Review covering Executive Director and EC succession and the overall talent pipeline ￮ Insights on Shell's talent and leadership strength. ￮ Assurance of robust succession and contingency plans. Topic of discussion/example of Committee activity Board membership and other appointments Directors' tenure, external commitments, conflicts of interest and succession planning ￮ Non-executive Director appointments and changes to committee membership. Topic of discussion/example of Committee activity Governance Regulation, legislation and other governance-related guidance ￮ Reviewed its Terms of Reference, and the Terms of Reference for other Board committees and the Matters Reserved for the Board. ￮ Received corporate governance updates, including with respect to the UK Corporate Governance Code. Shell plc matters ￮ Considered any potential conflicts of interest and the independence of the Non-executive Directors. ￮ Reviewed additional external appointments requested by Directors, with specific focus on the time allocated to all commitments. ￮ Determined the process for the externally facilitated 2025 Board Performance Review (see page 153 for an overview of the process and the outcome of the review). ￮ Considered the role and responsibilities of the Sustainability Committee. [A] The NOMCO was assisted during 2025 by Korn Ferry (UK) Limited ("Korn Ferry"), an external global search company whose main role was to propose suitable candidates. Korn Ferry does not have any connection with the Company other than that of search consultant, and leadership and advisory support. The Chair does not participate in discussions regarding his own succession. Korn Ferry is a signatory to The Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, which aims to improve board diversity. Executive Committee (EC) succession During the year, robust and effective succession planning supported the appointment of a number of new members to the Executive Committee. Some of the NOMCO activities in supporting these appointments are outlined below. The NOMCO undertakes comprehensive engagement to understand who the candidates are for senior roles, what personally drives them and how they will ensure Shell achieves its strategic ambitions. Succession for senior roles is planned well in advance and reviewed regularly. Succession planning is a crucial, ongoing consideration and not just an area of focus when an EC member change is anticipated. The Board oversees Shell's succession planning process in which selection is the final step of a rigorous, sophisticated and well-planned process. For Executive Director and EC appointments, the NOMCO has set a structured process: ￮ Before any potential decision on resourcing, it explicitly describes the requirements of the role and the candidate profile. ￮ By working in a planned, consistent manner, last-minute surprises are avoided and well-considered decisions are made in line with evolving business requirements. ￮ It also plans for the unexpected and maintains a list of candidates capable of stepping into senior roles to provide cover if necessary. The NOMCO spends time getting to know the candidates to ensure that the pipeline is robust, diverse and adaptive. The NOMCO ensures it has visibility of today's and tomorrow's leaders. Over the last few years, the NOMCO has met many leaders and had extensive engagements with each of them. Some of these leaders now sit on the EC, others were appointed to the Board (Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman). The NOMCO engages across the executive talent pipeline to ensure it interacts and becomes familiar with talent at different levels of the organisation; for example, on a regular basis informal engagements are held with employees from a range of businesses, functions and backgrounds prior to a Board meeting. Not only does this engagement support senior succession, it also provides a helpful element of the NOMCO's workforce engagement. The Board is proud that candidates for the most senior leadership roles have primarily come from within the business, demonstrating that the leadership development and succession process remains effective. 156 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance Sustainability Committee Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to present the Sustainability Committee (SUSCO) Report for 2025. The SUSCO focused on Shell's sustainability performance in 2025, with particular attention to environment and people topics. We received updates on sustainability-related regulations and discussed sustainability topics and matters of public concern. I was delighted to welcome new SUSCO member, Holly Keller Koeppel, who joined the SUSCO on January 1, 2026, bringing valuable experience and insights. As announced in December 2025, Neil Carson will not stand for re-election to the Board at the 2026 Annual General Meeting (AGM) and will subsequently step down from the SUSCO. I would like to thank Neil for his excellent contributions and insights to the Committee. The 2026 AGM will also be my last as the SUSCO Chair, as I will be stepping down from the Board and the SUSCO following the AGM. It has been a privilege to chair the SUSCO, and I wish my successor, Sir Andrew Mackenzie, every success for the future. Catherine J. Hughes Chair of the Sustainability Committee “The SUSCO focused on Shell's sustainability performance in 2025, with particular attention to environment and people topics.” Catherine J. Hughes Chair of the Sustainability Committee Focus areas for 2025 ￮ Shell's sustainability performance. ￮ Selected sustainability topics with focus on people and environment. ￮ Emerging trends and regulatory developments. ￮ Emerging sustainability topics with stakeholder interest. Priorities for 2026 ￮ Oversight of emerging external trends related to disclosed sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities. ￮ Undertake deep dives on sustainability topics as agreed by the Board and Committee. Committee membership [A] Member since January 1, 2026. Attendance during 2025 Committee member Member since Meetings attended % of meetings attended Catherine J. Hughes (Chair) November 1, 2017 4/4 100% Neil Carson OBE June 1, 2019 4/4 100% Bram Schot [B] October 1, 2020 3/4 75% Jane H. Lute May 24, 2022 4/4 100% Leena Srivastava March 13, 2023 4/4 100% [B] Bram Schot was unable to attend the March 2025 meeting due to another scheduled business commitment. 157 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Sustainability Committee continued Purpose The SUSCO's roles and responsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference which are reviewed annually (considered in December 2025 and reviewed and updated in February 2026), a copy of which can be found on shell.com. Following updates to its Terms of Reference, the SUSCO's purpose is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities by (i) providing oversight of emerging trends related to disclosed sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities, excluding carbon and safety (which remain matters for the Board) and (ii) performing such further functions related to sustainability, including undertaking deep dives on sustainability topics, as the Board and Committee may agree. The SUSCO meets at least twice each year. The Chair of the Board and the CFO attend Committee meetings. Activities During 2025, the SUSCO received updates on the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) implementation and other sustainability-related regulations and their potential implications for Shell. This included the EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive and the related EU-Omnibus developments. The SUSCO reviewed the double materiality assessment as part of the CSRD implementation, priority topics and peer reviews. The SUSCO considered, in depth, sustainability topics and matters of public concern such as human rights and worker welfare. The SUSCO was also briefed on Shell's fresh water use in operations and its supply chain with a focus on biofuels, and Shell's approach to plastic waste. The SUSCO provided input to Shell's annual reporting and disclosures on sustainability. The SUSCO Chair held meetings during the year with senior leaders to discuss specific topics. Site visits See Board activities on page 148 for information in relation to Board site visits. 158 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to present our Audit and Risk Committee (the ARC) Report for 2025. I was delighted to welcome new ARC members, Holly Keller Koeppel and Clare Scherrer, who both joined the ARC on January 1, 2026, and will bring valuable insight and experience. The ARC assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in areas including the integrity of financial reporting, the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework, as well as the consideration of ethics and compliance matters. We are responsible for assessing the quality of the audit performed by, and the independence and objectivity of, the external auditor. The ARC also makes a recommendation to the Board on the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor. In addition, we oversee the work and quality of the internal audit function. Our work programme over the course of a year focuses on a variety of matters that involve a high degree of judgement and/or are significant to Shell's Consolidated Financial Statements. We review with management the sources of estimation uncertainty and other key assumptions against the backdrop of economic and market uncertainty and volatility, climate risk and the energy transition and evolving stakeholder expectations. In addition, we consider the robustness of the risk and internal control framework, results of internal control testing performed throughout the year, and remediation activities. “The ARC assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in areas including the integrity of financial reporting, the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework, as well as the consideration of ethics and compliance matters.” Ann Godbehere Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee We received briefings from the Chief Internal Auditor on the outcomes of significant audits and notable control matters. We also received briefings from the Chief Internal Auditor and the Executive Vice President (EVP) Controller & Finance Operations on the effectiveness of Shell's risk management and internal control framework and readiness for compliance with the new Provision 29 of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code. The impacts of climate change and the energy transition continue to touch on many aspects of the ARC's work, including financial statement impacts. The ARC also considered sustainability-related disclosures required in accordance with the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). During 2025, the ARC reviewed benchmarking with disclosures prepared by other companies which are also subject to the requirements of the CSRD and satisfied itself Shell's disclosures remain appropriate. In 2025, the ARC held additional discussions to consider external auditor independence issues related to audit partner rotation requirements and amendments to Shell's Form 20-Fs for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2024. The ARC initiated a competitive audit tender process at the beginning of the fourth quarter 2025. In February 2026, the Board approved the ARC's audit tender outcome recommendation and a resolution proposing the appointment of PwC as the external auditor for the financial year 2027 will be put forward to shareholders for approval at the 2027 AGM. See page 167 for further information. As part of its oversight of compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, including monitoring ethics and compliance (E&C) risks, the ARC discussed with the Group Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer activities undertaken in the E&C programme which provides controls to mitigate E&C risks in the areas of anti-bribery and corruption/anti-money laundering, antitrust, data privacy, trade compliance and conduct risk management; and steps taken to manage those risks. In 2025, members of the ARC visited Australia as part of a Board site visit. Site visits deepen directors' understanding of risks and opportunities, as well as their understanding of how the Company's strategy is being implemented. On a final note, the ARC recognises the continued strong commitment and dedication of the financial and non-financial reporting teams and would like to thank them for all their efforts during 2025. Ann Godbehere Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Focus areas during 2025 ￮ Regulatory developments, including preparation for the new Provision 29 of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code, and fraud and sustainability reporting regulations. ￮ Portfolio developments, including the Adura Energy Limited joint venture. ￮ Information risk management, including cyber security. ￮ Treasury (including Pensions). ￮ Supply chain (Risks, Controls and Assurance). ￮ Finance Process Data System Transformation. 159 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Priorities for 2026 ￮ Trading Commodity Financing. ￮ Divestments. ￮ Joint ventures and portfolio companies. ￮ AI compliance. ￮ Finance systems and AI. Committee membership [A] Member since January 1, 2026. Attendance during 2025 Committee member Member since Meetings attended % of meetings attended Ann Godbehere (Chair) May 23, 2018 7/7 100% Dick Boer May 20, 2020 7/7 100% Cyrus Taraporevala March 2, 2023 7/7 100% Sir Charles Roxburgh March 13, 2023 7/7 100% Catherine J. Hughes May 23, 2023 7/7 100% All ARC members are financially literate, independent Non-executive Directors. In respect of the year ended December 31, 2025, for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Ann Godbehere qualifies as: a person with "recent and relevant financial experience" and competence in accounting, and, for the purposes of US securities laws, an "audit committee financial expert". The experience of the ARC members outlined on pages 140-145 demonstrates that the ARC as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which Shell operates, and the necessary commercial, regulatory, financial and audit expertise required to fulfil its responsibilities. The ARC members have gained further knowledge and experience of the sector as a result of their Board membership and through various in-person and virtual site visits since their respective appointments. The ARC invites the Chair of the Board, CFO, the Chief Legal Officer, the Chief Internal Auditor, the EVP Controller & Finance Operations, the Vice President Group Appraisal and Reporting and Deputy Controller, the Company Secretary and the external auditor to attend each meeting. The CEO may also attend ARC meetings. Other members of management attend when requested on specific topics or to provide input on more detailed technical matters that may arise. The ARC holds private sessions separately with the Chief Internal Auditor and the external auditor without members of management present (except for the Chief Legal Officer who may attend). Outside of the formal ARC meetings, the Chair of the ARC meets regularly with each of the following: the CFO, the EVP Controller & Finance Operations, the Chief Internal Auditor and the external auditor. Committee remit The roles and responsibilities of the ARC are set out in its Terms of Reference which are reviewed annually (considered in December 2025 and reviewed and updated in February 2026), a copy of which can be found on shell.com). The key responsibilities of the ARC include, but are not limited to: Risk management and internal control ￮ assisting the Board in reviewing the emerging, principal and other significant risks facing the Group; ￮ monitoring the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework; ￮ reviewing proposed related party transactions as described within the Terms of Reference. Financial reporting ￮ reviewing the integrity of the financial statements, including annual reports, half-year reports and quarterly financial statements; ￮ reviewing the potential impacts on the consolidated financial statements of the implementation of the Company's strategy, climate change and the energy transition; ￮ advising the Board whether, in the ARC's view, the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company's position and performance, business model and strategy; ￮ reviewing and discussing with management the appropriateness of judgements involving the application of accounting principles and disclosure rules; ￮ providing oversight in respect of material non-financial reporting disclosures with respect to corporate sustainability as applicable to the Company's annual reports, half-yearly reports and quarterly results releases; ￮ reviewing management's assessment of going concern and longer-term viability; ￮ reviewing, in conjunction with management, the Company's policies with respect to earnings releases, financial and non-financial performance information and earnings guidance provided to investors and financial markets. Compliance and governance ￮ reviewing the functioning of the Shell Global Helpline and reports arising from its operation; ￮ overseeing compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, including monitoring ethics and compliance risks. 160 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Internal audit ￮ monitoring the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the internal audit function; ￮ approving the internal audit function's charter and the annual internal audit plan to ensure alignment with the key risks of the business; ￮ reviewing with the Chief Internal Auditor, the Company's management and the external auditors any significant matters arising from internal audits and assessing management's response to internal audit findings and control weaknesses as appropriate, including potential improvements and agreed actions; ￮ assessing internal audit's performance and effectiveness each year. External audit ￮ reviewing and monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor; ￮ considering the annual external audit plan and approving related remuneration, including fees for audit and non-audit services; ￮ assessing the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor and the audit process, including an assessment of the quality of the audit; and ￮ recommending to the Board that it put to the Company's shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) a resolution to appoint, reappoint, or remove the external auditor. The ARC's responsibilities as set out in its Terms of Reference form the basis of the ARC's annual work plan, which is adjusted as appropriate throughout the year. In addition, the ARC annually identifies certain business and function areas to focus on during that year. The focus areas generally encompass aspects of risk management and internal control, financial reporting and compliance. The ARC is authorised to seek any information it requires from management and external parties and to investigate issues or concerns as it deems appropriate. The ARC may also obtain independent professional advice at the Company's expense. No such independent advice was requested in 2025. The ARC keeps the Board informed of its activities and recommendations, and the Chair of the ARC provides a report and an update to the Board after every ARC meeting. The ARC discusses with the Board if it is not satisfied with or believes that action or improvement is required concerning any aspect of financial reporting, risk management and internal control, compliance or audit-related activities. Focus areas for 2025 The ARC met with senior leaders from various business and function areas to discuss the adequacy, design and operational effectiveness of risk management and controls related to the critical activities carried out by their respective business or function. The discussions included information on any enhancements to strengthen controls and how areas identified for improvement had been addressed; the monitoring of activities around key risks; and the steps being taken to identify new or emerging areas of risk. In addition to the significant accounting and reporting considerations discussed on pages 163-164 the business and function areas reviewed by the ARC in 2025 included the following: ￮ Regulatory developments – the ARC was briefed regularly regarding regulatory developments and their implications for Shell, including, for example, in the UK, in relation to the new Provision 29 of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code, and the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023. In addition to CSRD developments, the ARC was briefed in relation to other UK, US and EU sustainability reporting developments. ￮ Treasury (including Pensions)– senior Treasury leaders provided the ARC with an overview of the scope and status of Treasury activities, noting that Group Treasury's overarching objective is to ensure that the Group is appropriately funded and that financial risks are managed appropriately. The ARC reviewed the overall governance, controls and assurance activities related to Treasury, including financial, operational (including cyber) and regulatory risks. The ARC also received an update on activities undertaken over the last three years to de-risk defined benefit pension schemes; an outline of risk management strategies being deployed or considered for larger defined benefit pension funds; and an update on legislative changes in the Netherlands. ￮ Supply chain (Risks, Controls and Assurance) -- the ARC was briefed with respect to the status and management of supply chain risks in the context of the current external and internal environment, including the impact of transformation projects. ￮ Finance Process Data System Transformation -- the ARC received an update regarding the major digital transformation which the Finance function is undergoing over the next five years, including an overview of the associated value, risks and mitigations. Site visits During the year, members of the ARC visited Australia as part of a Board site visit. Risk management and internal control The ARC assists the Board in reviewing the emerging, principal and other significant risks facing the Group and in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to risk management and internal control. In order to monitor the effectiveness of the procedures for internal control over financial reporting, compliance and operational matters, the ARC reviews reports on risks, controls and assurance, including the annual assessment of the risk management and internal control framework. The ARC also reviews management's evaluation of the internal control of financial reporting as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX 404). The ARC updated the Board on compliance with internal controls across the Shell Group and on any major matters for which action or improvement was recommended.Throughout the year, the ARC and management discuss Shell's overall approach to risk management and internal control, including compliance, tax and information risk management matters and the adequacy of disclosure controls and procedures. The ARC receives regular reports from the EVP Controller & Finance Operations on the status of actions to address control weaknesses identified via business control incidents and the trends in other measures used to monitor the robustness of the risk management framework and internal control systems. The ARC is also briefed on litigation and other matters (see Note 32 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 286-288 and "Governance framework" on page 152). For 2025, reviews included overall assessment of the risk landscape, including controls, exception reporting and Shell Internal Audit and Investigations (SIAI) observations as well as deep dives on specific areas, in addition to assessing readiness for compliance with the new Provision 29 of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code (see also "Governance Framework" on page 152). The ARC also regularly reviews the status of management's SOX 404 testing of controls and remediation actions to address any identified weaknesses. The ARC and management also discussed the steps taken to maintain an effective control environment and to further demonstrate "management in control" during the year. 161 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Audit and Risk Committee Report continued It is important that the ARC monitors and learns about relevant evolving external developments in a timely fashion. Accordingly, the ARC is regularly briefed on developments in the legal, regulatory and financial reporting landscape that could affect the Company. In 2025, the ARC dedicated time to the following topics: ￮ Tax risks – in addition to the regular review of Shell's tax provisions, the ARC received updates regarding developments in the external tax landscape, including windfall and minimum taxes. The ARC and management also discussed tax strategy, tax risk management and the tax control framework. ￮ Information risk management, including cyber security – the ARC was briefed in relation to Shell's information risk management framework, against the backdrop of a deteriorating external threat environment and evolving global regulatory landscape, including SEC cyber security disclosure rules. The ARC was also provided with an update on strategic programmes in information risk management. ￮ Oil and gas reserves control framework – the ARC annually reviews the framework that supports Shell's internal reporting and external disclosures of oil and gas reserves. The ARC also reviews the processes and controls that prevent and/or mitigate the risks of non-compliance with regulatory reporting requirements. This annual review of Shell's oil and gas reserves control framework supports the ARC's review of Shell's reported proved oil and gas reserves discussed later in this report. In addition to the above, the ARC also had quarterly discussions with the Chief Internal Auditor regarding the Company's risk management and internal control framework, significant matters arising from the internal audit assurance programme and management's response to internal audit findings and control weaknesses, including agreed actions. The ARC also reviews significant legal matters with Shell's Chief Legal Officer. The ARC similarly holds discussions with EY, the external auditor, on a quarterly basis regarding how risks to audit quality are addressed, key accounting and audit judgements, results from audit procedures and management's response to any significant audit findings and any material communications between EY and management. Financial reporting The ARC receives comprehensive reports from management and the external auditor on quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial reporting, accounting policies and areas of significant judgements and other reporting matters. The ARC reviewed the Company's 2025 quarterly unaudited interim financial statements, half-year report, Annual Report and Form 20-F with management and the external auditor. The ARC also reviewed the amendments to Shell's Form 20-Fs for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2024 (see pages 167 for further information). Shell uses alternative performance measures (APM) to provide greater insights into its financial and operating results. The ARC regularly considers the APMs used in Shell's reporting, the reconciliations to IFRS financial statements and explanations for changes from the previous quarter and year. The ARC reviews the overall presentation of APMs with management to ensure they are not given undue prominence. The ARC discusses adjusting items with management, including any changes to methodology. The APMs disclosed by Shell are subject to the same internal control process as that applied for other financial reporting. The ARC discussed the audited financial statements with management and the external auditor. The ARC advised the Board that in its view the 2025 Form 20-F including the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2025, taken as a whole, provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Shell's position and performance, business model and strategy. The ARC also advised the Board that in its view, the inclusion of the audited financial statements in the 2025 Form 20-F is appropriate. To reach this conclusion, the ARC critically assessed drafts of the 2025 Form 20-F including the financial statements and reviewed with management the process for ensuring compliance with applicable requirements. This process included: verifying that the contents of the 2025 Form 20-F are consistent with the information shared with the Board during the year to support their assessment of Shell's financial position and performance; ensuring that consistent materiality thresholds are applied for favourable and unfavourable items; considering comments from the external auditor; and receiving assurance from the Executive Committee (EC). The ARC also reviewed and considered the Directors' half-year and full-year statements with respect to the going concern basis of accounting. The Committee and the external auditor also discussed matters regarding the audit and the quality of the accounting judgements employed by management. 162 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Significant accounting and reporting considerations The ARC considered the following significant accounting and reporting matters, including those related to Shell's 2025 Consolidated Financial Statements. The ARC was satisfied with how each of the areas below was addressed. As part of this assessment, the ARC received reports, requested and received clarifications from management, and sought assurance and received input from the internal and external auditors. Matters considered Committee activity and outcome Climate change and energy transition Risks related to climate change and the energy transition are regularly monitored to ensure impacts are reflected within Shell's financial statements. The external landscape related to non-financial disclosures continues to evolve. In the absence of one global standard for climate-related reporting, there are demands from various regulatory and voluntary bodies all with their own expectations for disclosures. The ARC discussed with management key regulatory requirements including (but not limited to) the EU Omnibus simplifications, and International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) requirements, and their implications or potential implications for Shell's external disclosures. The ARC reviewed Note 4 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" summarising the key climate risk impacts on the Consolidated Financial Statements as well as the impairment sensitivity disclosures using price outlooks based on different climate change scenarios, including external scenarios. See Note 4 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 228-239. The ARC was briefed on the status of Shell’s Sustainability reporting, associated risks and uncertainties, and control framework. The ARC reviewed regulatory sustainability disclosures including the CSRD disclosures within the "Sustainability Statements" section, and other non-financial disclosures as part of the Annual Report review. The ARC was also briefed on the EU Taxonomy disclosures included within the "Supplementary Information" section. Updates regarding climate change and energy transition risk factors have been included on pages 25-26. Impairment and impairment reversals The carrying amount of an asset should be tested for impairment or impairment reversal whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the recoverable amount for that asset may have changed, for example if there is a change in the outlook for commodity prices or refining margin assumptions, or in the event of revisions to future activity plans and developments. On classification as held for sale, the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and intangible assets must also be reviewed. The ARC reviewed the impairment assessments that were performed each quarter, and the methodology applied in conducting impairment assessments. The ARC considered continued volatility in global risk-free interest rates, alongside other input assumptions, in assessing market expectations of the expected rate of return on various assets for the purposes of impairment testing. This included reviewing the outcomes of periodic reassessments of the weighted average cost of capital during the year, including management's conclusion on the reasonability of the discount rate applied as at December 31, 2025. The ARC was satisfied the discount rate applied throughout the period was appropriate. The ARC considered the updated oil and gas price outlooks against market developments and benchmarks. The 2025 commodity price outlook was reassessed to determine whether revised price premises would result in a trigger for impairment or impairment reversal. The ARC reviewed the outcomes of impairment assessments and was satisfied with the conclusions reached. The ARC also reviewed other circumstances that may indicate that the recoverable amount of assets may have changed, such as those related to revision of future plans and developments, exploration and evaluation assets, held-for-sale classification for asset disposals and margin assumptions. The ARC also reviewed the outcomes of goodwill testing. See Notes 2, 11, 12 and 13 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 218-228, 252-253, 253-254 and 255-257. Gas and power markets and derivatives accounting External events during the year affected trading activities. The impacts on financial outcomes of Integrated Gas, and Renewables and Energy Solutions included, for example, significant derivatives movements. The ARC reviewed Trading and Supply activities and developments, including analysis of the trading strategies employed, their impact on financial metrics, and the associated accounting treatment applied. The ARC reviewed the impacts of volatile gas and power markets including the impact on mark-to-market valuation of derivatives, income for the period and Adjusted Earnings, as well as the resulting cash flow movements. See Note 26 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 276-282. Taxation The determination of tax assets and liabilities requires the application of judgement as to the ultimate outcome, which can change over time. In particular, uncertain tax treatments require management to assess the more-likely-than-not outcome, and the recognition of deferred tax assets requires management to make assumptions regarding future profitability. As a result, they are inherently uncertain. The ARC considered the uncertain tax positions and discussed management's assumptions of future taxable profits. The ARC also evaluated the appropriateness of the recognition of deferred tax assets and tax liabilities. The ARC recognises that assumptions regarding future taxable profits are inherently uncertain because they involve assessing factors such as the potential impacts of climate change and the energy transition. The ARC deemed the assessments of uncertain tax exposures and the recognition of deferred tax assets and tax liabilities to be reasonable. See Notes 2 and 23 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 218-228 and 265-268. 163 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Matters considered Committee activity and outcome Portfolio activities In implementing our strategy, several portfolio developments occurred in 2025. The ARC discussed the accounting implications of these developments and the recognition of: (i) decommissioning and restoration provisions; (ii) deferred tax balances; (iii) impairment; and (iv) assets held for sale. The ARC also considered complex accounting treatments arising from acquisitions and divestments, including the acquisition of Pavilion Energy in March 2025, the sale of The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria in March 2025, the sale of Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Singapore in April 2025, and the recognition and measurement of the Adura Energy Limited joint venture with Equinor. See Notes 2 and 25 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 218-228 and 275. Provisions, contingent liabilities and disclosures Provisions, including decommissioning and restoration provisions, are one of the main components of the balance sheet liabilities. The quantification of these provisions requires judgements on input parameters which include, but are not limited to, discount rates and estimated future decommissioning and restoration costs. Contingent liabilities, arising from uncertain future events, are assessed for recognition or disclosure in line with reporting standards. The ARC reviewed the input parameter assumptions and judgements used in arriving at the decommissioning and restoration provisions. The discount rate is reviewed regularly and the ARC considered the extent to which the rate applied remained appropriate in the context of volatile US Treasury yields. The ARC was satisfied that the rate applied remained appropriate a s at December 31, 2025. The ARC reviewed provisions, contingent liabilities and disclosures related to litigation, based on quarterly updates, for inclusion in the quarterly unaudited interim financial statements, half-year report, Annual Report and Form 20-F. The ARC also reviewed other provisions. The ARC has continued to receive updates on the withdrawal from Russian oil and gas activities throughout 2025 including implications for the financial statements. Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefits are an important component of both assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. The quantification of these assets and liabilities requires judgements on input parameters which include, but are not limited to, actuarial assumptions and discount rates. The ARC reviewed the management of risks in relation to retirement benefits in 2025, including financial, operational and regulatory developments. The ARC reviewed the key assumptions (including discount rates and inflation) and sensitivities as part of the Annual Report review and the enhanced disclosures made in this Report. The ARC also considered the accounting treatment for complex retirement benefit transactions, including the recognition of an asset ceiling adjustment in respect of Shell's defined benefit pension fund in the Netherlands. See Note 24 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on pages 268-274. Other matters Other significant accounting and reporting matters assessed. The ARC also reviewed: the year-end reported proved oil and gas reserves, including management judgements and adjustments made to reflect changes in geological, technical, contractual and economic information (including yearly average price assumptions) and the effectiveness of financial controls. 164 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Compliance and Governance Ethics and compliance In 2025, the ARC received an update from the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer with respect to revisions to the Code of Conduct (see also page 138) and the introduction of the Legal Group Requirements (which replaced the Ethics and Compliance Manual in December 2025). The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer also briefed the ARC on how a range of factors and external trends and developments were affecting conduct risk at Shell. The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer summarised emerging ethics and compliance risks and management's actions to manage and mitigate them. The Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer briefed the ARC on communications to staff from both senior leaders and mid-level management reinforcing the importance of adherence to and affirming Shell's commitment to the Ethics and Compliance framework and Code of Conduct throughout the year. As part of the overall assessment of the risk management and internal control framework, the ARC discussed with the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer their annual report on compliance matters. The report included an overview of the effectiveness of Shell's ethics and compliance programme in managing ethics and compliance risk in Shell's business activities, regulatory developments and compliance activities. The ARC also reviewed investigations of cases involving ethics and compliance concerns. The ARC discussed management's findings in such cases to satisfy itself that a rigorous process had been followed, with appropriate disciplinary action being taken where necessary, and that management had embedded learnings into Shell's systems and controls. Whistleblowing investigations The ARC is responsible for establishing and monitoring the implementation of procedures for the receipt, retention, investigation and follow-up actions of complaints received, including those from the Shell Global Helpline. The ARC reviewed whistleblowing reports and internal audit reports and considered management's responses to the findings in these reports. In 2025, 1,983 allegations and enquiries were made through the Shell Global Helpline (2024: 2,025), of which approximately 34% were submitted anonymously (2024: 39%). In 2025, a total of 497 investigations were closed (2024: 555), of which 67% were found substantiated (2024: 62%) and were highest in the areas involving harassment, information and records management, conflicts of interest and protection of assets. Regulatory developments The ARC was briefed on regulatory developments in areas including: (i) sustainability and climate-related disclosures; (ii) accounting and reporting developments; (iii) environmental liabilities; (iv) treasury activities; (v) fraud; and (vi) readiness for compliance with the new Provision 29 of the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code. ARC annual evaluation The ARC undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance and effectiveness. Noting also the outcome of the external Board performance review, which was discussed prior to the February 2026 Board meeting, and the subsequent report, the ARC concluded that its performance in 2025 had been effective and that it had fulfilled its role in accordance with its Terms of Reference.(See also "Governance framework" section on pages 153) Internal Audit Each quarter, the ARC discusses with the Chief Internal Auditor the Company's risk management and internal control framework, any significant matters arising from the internal audit assurance programme and management's response to significant audit findings and notable control weaknesses, including planned improvements and agreed actions. The ARC also holds private sessions with the Chief Internal Auditor without members of management, except for the Chief Legal Officer, who may attend. Outside of the formal ARC meetings, the Chair of the ARC meets regularly with the Chief Internal Auditor. Internal audit remit The internal audit function is an independent assurance function which supports Shell's continuous efforts to improve its overall control framework. The internal audit function contributes to the maintenance of a systematic and disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the design and effectiveness of Shell's risk management, and control and governance processes. The primary role of the internal audit function's assurance and investigation activities is to safeguard value by protecting Shell's assets, reputation and sustainability in relation to the organisation's defined goals and objectives. The ARC defines the responsibility and scope of the internal audit function and approves its annual plan. The Chief Internal Auditor reports functionally to the Chair of the ARC and administratively to the Chief Financial Officer. The Chair of the ARC approves, in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer, all decisions regarding the performance evaluation, appointment or removal of the Chief Internal Auditor. A new Chief Internal Auditor was appointed with effect from March 2025. Annual internal audit plan and assessment of internal audit's effectiveness The ARC considered and approved the internal audit functional plan, including these focus areas for 2025: ￮ People -- talent and capability (professional audit development and technical capabilities). ￮ Operational excellence -- further enhance the planning, execution and reporting processes. ￮ Competitiveness -- increase value by tailoring the function's structure and targeting critical risks areas. ￮ Innovative technology -- further leveraging innovation and new technologies, such as AI and data analytics. In 2025, the Chief Internal Auditor's reports continued to be developed with the use of AI. The Chief Internal Auditor periodically assesses whether the purpose, authority and responsibilities of the internal audit function continue to enable it to accomplish its objectives. The results of this periodic assessment are communicated to the Executive Committee and the ARC. The Chief Internal Auditor also confirms to the ARC the continued validity of the charter of the internal audit function or puts forward proposals for updates to it. The Chief Internal Auditor maintains an internal quality assurance and improvement programme, including an annual assessment of the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal audit function's activities and evaluations of conformance with the standards of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors (CIIA). The Chief Internal Auditor discusses the results of this annual assessment with the EC and the ARC. The Chief Internal Auditor also provided the ARC with an update on the status of implementation of the Institute of Internal Auditors new Global Internal Audit Standards which took effect on January 9, 2025, and noted the steps taken to meet the intent of these new standards. 165 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Audit and Risk Committee Report continued At least every five years, the effectiveness and quality of the internal audit function are independently assessed externally, and the Chief Internal Auditor reviews the report with the EC and the ARC. An independent assessment of the internal audit was conducted at the end of 2022. The 2022 assessment confirmed that the internal audit conformed with the CIIA standards and the 2020 Internal Audit code of practice and identified some opportunities for further improvement. The next external assessment is planned to take place in 2027. The Chief Internal Auditor updated the ARC quarterly on the approved 2025 internal audit plan and discussed whether the plan remained fit for purpose in addressing the most critical areas of risk. The ARC assessed the performance of both the internal audit function and the Chief Internal Auditor as effective. The ARC also considered and approved the 2026 internal audit plan. External Auditor Annual external audit plan and assessment of external audit's effectiveness EY reviewed with the ARC its audit strategy, scope and plan for the 2025 audit, highlighting areas which would receive special consideration. In particular, the ARC and EY discussed how the audit would take into consideration risks associated with: ￮ Trading and Supply complexity; ￮ Revenue recognition fraud risk (unauthorised trading and management override); ￮ Climate change and the energy transition; ￮ Oil and gas reserves; ￮ Impairment assessments; ￮ Litigation; ￮ Decommissioning and restoration obligations; ￮ Accounting for divestments; ￮ Pensions; and ￮ Taxation. EY defines significant audit risks as those areas where there is a higher likelihood of a material error and which therefore require special audit attention. In EY's view, the significant audit risks are Trading and Supply complexity and the risk of unauthorised trading or management override. The ARC considered the annual audit plan, which included assessing whether the planned materiality levels and proposed resources to execute the audit plan were consistent with the scope of the audit. EY regularly updated the ARC on the status of its procedures and preliminary findings, providing an opportunity for the ARC to monitor the execution and results of the audit. The ARC and EY discussed how risks to audit quality were addressed, key accounting and audit judgements, material communications between EY and management and any issues arising from them. EY also reviewed with the ARC its risk assessments, materiality, scope and observations and conclusions in relation to Shell's CSRD disclosures. Quarterly, the ARC meets privately with EY representatives without management (except for the Chief Legal Officer who may attend) being present to encourage open and transparent feedback from both parties. In addition, the Chair of the ARC meets separately with the external auditor on a regular basis. As part of its oversight of the external auditor, the ARC annually assesses the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor and the audit process. This includes assessing the quality of the audit, how the auditor handled key judgements, and the auditor's response to the ARC's questions. The assessment also involves the ARC evaluating the objectivity and independence of EY and the quality and effectiveness of the external audit process. The ARC's evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor and the audit process includes the following key criteria: ￮ professionalism, competence, integrity and objectivity during the audit, including handling of areas involving judgement and estimates; ￮ EY's quality assurance procedures and internal quality control procedures; ￮ audit quality priorities and actions taken as part of maintaining a sustainable audit quality programme; ￮ constructive challenge of management and key judgements; ￮ efficiency, covering aspects such as service level and innovation in the audit process, use of data analytical and digital audit tools, and opportunities for improvement; ￮ quality of the audit team's leadership; ￮ the most recent EY Transparency Report; ￮ thought leadership and actions, especially in the areas of climate change; and ￮ compliance with relevant legislative, regulatory and professional requirements. In addition to reflecting on its own experiences, including interactions with the external auditor throughout the year, the ARC considered and discussed the results of management's internal survey relating to EY's performance over the financial year 2025, which reflected a broadly comparable performance to 2024 and the views and recommendations from management and the Chief Internal Auditor. As part of the current assessment of effectiveness, the ARC has taken into consideration the guidance issued by the FRC, including the guidance issued in May 2023 on oversight of the external audit set out in "Audit Committees and the External Audit: Minimum Standard" (the Minimum Standard). EY non-compliance with independence rules related to audit partner rotation requirements On July 1, 2025, EY advised the ARC that its US opinions on the Company's previously issued audited consolidated financial statements and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting (jointly the "previously issued financial statements") for the years ended as of December 31, 2023 and 2024 (the "applicable years"), respectively, should no longer be relied upon. After an internal review, EY concluded that it was not in compliance with the SEC's auditor independence rules related to audit partner rotation requirements for the audits of the applicable years. EY had determined that the partner who led the audit for the applicable years had exceeded the period allowed under SEC audit partner rotation rules and hence was not eligible to serve as lead engagement partner for those audits. EY subsequently assigned a different partner to perform the role of lead audit partner with respect to the audits and concluded that no changes to the previously issued financial statements for the applicable years were necessary. EY also concluded that the appropriate remediation had been completed, and it was capable of exercising objective and impartial judgment with respect to the US audit opinions included in the amended Form 20-Fs for the applicable years to be filed with the SEC. The previously issued financial statements as prepared by the Company for the applicable years were unchanged and, on July 2, 2025, the Company filed amended Form 20-Fs for the applicable years. To reflect the new issue date of the Consolidated Financial Statements, consequential updates were included with respect to the going concern period and the post-balance sheet events note to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Save for these items, the previously issued financial statements and other notes did not change. The EY audit opinions remained unqualified. EY also advised the ARC that the 166 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Audit and Risk Committee Report continued time limitations under the UK Financial Reporting Council's Revised Ethical Standard regarding rotation of partners had been exceeded. No amended filings were required in the UK. Prior to filing the amended Form 20-Fs, the ARC discussed this independence matter, including EY presenting to the ARC an overview of its findings and remedial steps taken to address this matter. The ARC also reviewed management's assessment of EY's independence and remediation. Taking due consideration of the above, the ARC concluded that EY is able to exercise objective and impartial judgement and hence supported the filing of the amended Form 20-Fs for the applicable years. To gain a deeper understanding of the independence matter, at the ARC's request, EY presented to the ARC an analysis and conclusion of EY's review of the fact pattern that led to the breaches (the Review), and the additional controls and procedures implemented to ensure future compliance with regulatory independence requirements. Management also provided the ARC with its assessment of EY's Review and conclusion. The ARC discussed the Review findings with EY and also separately without EY. The ARC factored in these discussions in its assessment of the quality of EY's audit services and audit team. Taking into account the above, the ARC is satisfied that EY continued to provide a high-quality and effective audit in its tenth year as auditor and maintained its objectivity, integrity and impartiality. As required under UK and US auditing standards, the ARC received a letter on independence-related matters from EY. EY also informed the ARC in writing of any significant relationships and matters that may reasonably be thought to affect its objectivity and independence. The ARC and EY discussed such relationships and matters and determined that they did not impair EY's objectivity, integrity and impartiality. Audit Committees and the External Audit: Minimum Standard This Audit and Risk Committee Report describes how the ARC has complied, to the extent applicable, with the provisions of the Minimum Standard during the year (in particular the "External Auditor" section of this report). There were no shareholder requests for certain matters to be covered in the audit during the year and there were no regulatory inspections of the quality of the Company's audit. An explanation of the Group's accounting policies is provided on pages 218-228. Reappointment 2026 The ARC is responsible for considering whether there should be a rotation of the independent registered public accounting firm to ensure continuing auditor quality and/or independence, including consideration of the advisability and potential impact of conducting a tender process for the appointment of a different independent public accounting firm. The ARC is also responsible for making a recommendation to the Board, for it to put to the Company's shareholders for approval in the General Meeting, on the appointment, reappointment, or removal of the external auditor. EY was first appointed at the AGM in May 2016 after a competitive tender process. As EY was appointed in 2016, the Company was required to tender for the audit no later than the financial year commencing January 1, 2026. The tender process, led by the ARC, was commenced during 2023 and completed in 2024. Following the meetings and review of each of the candidate firms' proposals and presentations, the ARC made its recommendation on the basis of its assessment of the abilities of each of the candidate firms. At the Board meeting in December 2024, the ARC recommended two possible audit firm options to the Board, with the ARC's preference to appoint EY, and supporting justifications. The ARC's recommendation was accepted by the Board and a resolution proposing the appointment of EY as the external auditor for the financial year 2026 will be put forward to shareholders for approval at the 2026 AGM. The ARC's recommendation was free from third-party influence and there are no contractual obligations that restrict the ARC's ability to make such a recommendation. The external audit tender process is discussed on pages 178–179 of the Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2024. The lead audit partner, David Canning-Jones, was appointed in 2025. For the 2025 financial year, the Company has complied with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014. External audit tender Considering the developments with regards to EY non-compliance with independence rules related to audit partner rotation requirements described earlier in this Report, the ARC decided at the beginning of the fourth quarter 2025, to initiate a tender process for the external auditor, for the financial year ending December 31, 2027 (the 2026 audit tender). The ARC believes that the commencement of such a tender at this time was in the best interests of the shareholders following analysis undertaken with respect to EY's non-compliance with auditor independence rules related to audit partner rotation requirements. In conducting the tender process, the ARC considered the guidance on tendering set out in the Minimum Standard. ARC members were involved throughout the external audit tender process, including members appointed during the process from the point of their appointment. Selection criteria To enable an objective selection, weighted selection criteria were endorsed by the ARC, with the choice of auditor being based on quality, including independence, challenge and technical competence and not price or perceived cultural fit. The firms invited to tender, EY and PwC, were informed that their respective proposals would be assessed using the same selection criteria as in the 2024 audit tender, with a focus on independence, team composition, audit scoping and regulatory compliance. Whilst the audit fee was considered, it was not a selection criterion nor a decisive factor. Selection process In the 2024 audit tender, the ARC shortlisted EY and PwC based on quality, team and relevant experience for a company of Shell's size, scale and complexity, having also considered UK challenger firms with a 'public interest entity' auditor registration. Given that the audit market has not materially changed since the 2024 audit tender, the ARC remained satisfied that this shortlisting decision was valid for the 2026 audit tender. In November 2025, a request for proposal was issued to EY and PwC, followed by a series of management information sessions to update the firms on key strategic, operational and financial reporting developments since the 2024 tender. In January 2026, the final proposals were submitted by EY and PwC. The approach to the 2026 audit tender process and the selection criteria were considered and supported by the ARC. The ARC received management's assessment of the EY and PwC proposals and input from management regarding the previously approved scoring criteria ahead of final meetings between the ARC and each of EY and PwC, which took place in February 2026. The ARC considered the safeguards in place to ensure the audit tender and selection process remained objective and independent, including appropriate recusals from key recommendations and decisions. As part of the process, public reports published by the FRC and other regulators were also considered. ARC recommendation Following the meetings and review of each of the candidate firms' proposals and presentations, the ARC made its selection based 167 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Audit and Risk Committee Report continued on its assessment of the capabilities of each of the candidate firms, as presented in their respective proposals. At the Board meeting in February 2026, the ARC recommended EY and PwC as possible audit firm options to the Board, with the ARC's preference to appoint PwC, and supporting justifications. The ARC's recommendation was accepted by the Board and a resolution proposing the appointment of PwC as the external auditor for the financial year 2027 will be put forward to the shareholders for approval at the 2027 AGM. Item 16F Change in registrant's certifying accountant Following the tender process described above, EY will complete the audit for the financial year 2026, resign at a date to be determined and not stand for reappointment at our 2027 AGM. In respect of fiscal years 2024 and 2025, EY has not issued any report on the Consolidated financial statements or on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of the Company that contained an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion. The relevant EY auditor's reports were not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles. During fiscal years 2024 and 2025 and through March 11, 2026 there has not been any disagreement (as that term is used in Item 16F(a)(1)(iv) of Form 20-F) with EY over any matter of accounting principle or practice, financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedures, which disagreement, if not resolved to EY's satisfaction, would have caused EY to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreement in connection with its reports, or any reportable event as described in Item 16F(a)(1)(v) of Form 20-F with the exception that, as previously disclosed, on July 1, 2025, the Company's Audit and Risk Committee was informed by EY that (i) for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, EY's independence was impaired due to non-compliance with the SEC's auditor independence rules related to audit partner rotation requirements; and (ii) solely as a consequence of this determination, EY was withdrawing its audit reports dated March 25, 2025 and March 13, 2024 on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and its reports dated March 25, 2025 and March 13, 2024 on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and that such reports should no longer be relied upon. On July 2, 2025, the Company filed separate amended Form 20-Fs for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 to include the Consolidated Financial Statements and EY's reissued audit opinions on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for the years ended and as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Shell has provided EY with a copy of the foregoing disclosure and has requested that they furnish the Company with a letter addressed to the US Securities and Exchange Commission stating whether it agrees with such disclosure and, if not, stating the respects in which it does not agree. A copy of EY's letter dated March 11, 2026, is filed as Exhibit 16.1. During fiscal years 2024 and 2025 and through the subsequent interim period March 11, 2026, the Company has not consulted with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ("PwC") regarding either: (i) the application of accounting principles to specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the Consolidated financial statements of the Company, and neither a written report was provided to the Company nor was oral advice provided that PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP concluded was an important factor considered by the Company in reaching a decision as to the accounting, auditing or financial reporting issue; or (ii) any matter that was either the subject of a disagreement, as that term is defined in Item 16F(a)(1)(iv) and the related instructions to Item 16F of Form 20-F, or reportable event, as that term is defined in Item 16F(a)(1)(v) of Form 20-F. Non-audit services The ARC maintains an auditor independence policy (AIP) in respect of the provision of services by the external auditor. Under the AIP, the ARC will only approve services to be carried out by the external auditor or its affiliates where such services do not present a conflict of interest risk in fact or in appearance. The ARC regularly reviews this policy for necessary changes in response to changes in related standards and regulatory requirements. This policy is designed to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence. It addresses the provision of audit services, audit-related services and other non-audit services and stipulates which services require specific prior approval by the ARC. The policy also defines prohibited services in line with applicable rules and regulations. Our external auditors are not allowed to provide prohibited services due to independence concerns. For certain non-prohibited services, because of the knowledge and experience of the external auditor and/or for reasons of confidentiality, it may be more efficient or prudent for the external auditor to provide such services. The ARC reviews quarterly reports from management on the audit and non-audit services reported in accordance with the policy or for which specific prior approval from the ARC is being sought. Under the AIP, no prior approval by the ARC is required for any additional audit service contract not individually exceeding $500,000. All non-audit services where the fee for an individual contract exceeds $100,000, including audit-related services, require individual prior approval by the ARC. For audit or non-audit service contracts that do not exceed the relevant threshold, the matter is pre-approved by management and is subsequently presented for approval by the ARC. The ARC is mindful of the overall proportion of fees for audit and non-audit services in determining whether to approve such services. Fees After due consideration, the ARC approved the auditor's remuneration, satisfying itself that the level of fees payable in respect of the audit and non-audit services provided was appropriate and that an effective, high-quality audit could be conducted for such fees. The total auditor's remuneration of $63 million (2024: $66 million, 2023: $66 million) is categorised as follows: audit $58 million (2024: $62 million, 2023: 64 million); audit-related $3 million (2024: $4 million, 2023: $2 million); and all other fees $2 million (2024: $0 million, 2023: $0 million). The scope of audit-related services contracted with the external auditor in 2025 consisted mainly of assurance and other attest services related to financial reporting. See Note 35 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 290 for details of the auditor's remuneration. 168 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance Directors' Remuneration Report This report The Directors' Remuneration Report for 2025 has been prepared in accordance with relevant UK corporate governance and legal requirements, in particular Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended). The Board has approved this report. This report is split into three sections: ￮ Chair's letter; ￮ Annual Report on Remuneration, describing 2025 remuneration outcomes and the planned implementation of the proposed Directors' Remuneration Policy (Policy) in 2026; and ￮ The proposed Policy, which is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2026 Annual General Meeting (AGM). “In 2025, we saw strong and decisive leadership, with a focus on unlocking Shell's full potential and continued commitment to safety.” Cyrus Taraporevala Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholders, In 2025, Shell achieved another set of strong financial results that have enabled us to deliver enhanced distributions to shareholders. At Shell, safety is extremely important and we continually work to keep our people safe. I am saddened by the tragic incidents that occurred at Shell-operated ventures in 2025. Colleagues lost their lives in four incidents in Argentina, Malaysia and the UK. When it determined the final pay outcomes for 2025, the REMCO reflected on these tragic incidents and Shell's broader safety performance. 2025 remuneration outcomes 2025 annual bonus The annual bonus scorecard outcome was above target at 1.48. The REMCO used downward discretion to determine a final bonus outcome for Executive Directors of 1.42 after careful consideration of the factors leading to the tragic fatalities during the year and reflection on Shell's overall performance in 2025, including broader safety performance. The reduction in the bonus outcome as a result of the adjustment is equal to around 8% of salary for both Executive Directors. Further information is on page 179. See pages 178-180 for the complete scorecard with all targets, ranges and weightings, and a discussion of performance against targets. Vesting of the 2023 share awards Overall, the vesting outcome of the share award was 149% of target. The REMCO was satisfied that no windfall gain had arisen. The REMCO also believes the vesting outcome to be representative of Shell's performance over the period. See page 181 for full details of share award targets and weightings, and a discussion of performance against targets. Finalising the 2025 pay outcomes In finalising pay outcomes, the REMCO considered Shell's wider performance and context during 2025 and over the share award performance period, paying particular attention to: ￮ The strong financial performance in 2025, with cash flow from operating activities (CFFO) of $42.9 billion, Adjusted Earnings* of $18.5 billion and free cash flow (FCF)* of $26.1 billion, which has enabled Shell to invest in its businesses and deliver shareholder distributions. ￮ The shareholder experience, including: – cash dividends of $8.5 billion and share buybacks of $13.9 billion in 2025, resulting in total shareholder distributions* of $22.4 billion for the year and $67.9 billion over the share award performance period (2023–2025); and – absolute and relative total shareholder return (TSR) performance over the same periods, including the strongest TSR within the energy peer group over the share award performance period. ￮ Shell's performance beyond the formulaic outcomes of the variable pay structures, including safety (and fatalities), reputation, ethics and compliance, and feedback from the Audit and Risk Committee. ￮ Shareholders' views on remuneration matters, as shared with the REMCO during engagements in April and October 2025. ￮ The employee experience, where the REMCO noted the above-target bonus outcome, the above-target vesting outcome for 2025 under the Performance Share Plan (PSP) for discretionary share awards below Senior Executive level and the average employee salary increases. ￮ Comparisons between the 2025 outcomes and historical remuneration levels, noting appropriate pay-performance alignment. ￮ The alignment of the 10-year average outcomes of the annual bonus scorecard (1.13) and share award (109% of target) around the target level, reflecting the effective design of the structures and the integrity of the target-setting process. This resulted in a single figure outcome of £13.8 million for the CEO and £8.5 million for the CFO. The REMCO was satisfied that the current shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy had operated as intended, and these outcomes were appropriate in the context of Company performance and the target pay opportunity. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. 169 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report continued [A] Current Policy target and maximum based on the shareholder-approved 2023 Remuneration Policy in respect of the annual bonus and the share award. Salary, pension and benefits are based on 2025 data. [B] Incremental remuneration in respect of 2022 for services as CEO Designate, in anticipation of becoming CEO in 2023. Strategic review of remuneration At the May 2026 AGM, shareholders will have the opportunity to vote on the proposed Directors' Remuneration Policy (Policy). In preparing for the Policy, the REMCO has spent considerable time over the past two years reflecting on the nature of the leadership ask at Shell; what it takes to lead Shell now and for the performance opportunity ahead; and how to frame remuneration appropriately -- including quantum, performance requirements and the use of discretion -- with incentives to deliver exceptional performance that supports the journey ahead as set out at Capital Markets Day 2025 (CMD25) and beyond. Background Since his appointment in January 2023, CEO Wael Sawan has acted with urgency to focus on delivering consistent performance, sharpen Shell's strategic focus and lay the foundations to unlock the Company's full potential. Capital Markets Day 2023 (CMD23) marked a course correction: it challenged internal assumptions, and initiated a reset to improve asset performance and shareholder returns, apply capital discipline, reduce costs, drive a cultural shift and simplify portfolio and execution. The Energy Transition Strategy 2024 aligned Shell's role in the energy transition with our core strengths and competitive capabilities. Most recently, CMD25 evolved the strategy to further focus on value by raising the bar on key financial targets while maintaining the current climate-related targets and ambition. These changes demand significant leadership, particularly from the CEO. The impact is clear: Shell is delivering higher and more consistent returns, enhanced capital discipline and reduced costs, all while driving a cultural shift towards performance, discipline and simplification. It has been a very positive tenure for the CEO so far and the results are evident in the clear outperformance of peers on shareholder returns. Case for change The Board has outlined a vision to unlock the Company's potential for shareholders by redefining performance, repositioning the portfolio and resetting culture. We will drive performance by unlocking additional value from capital and cost discipline. Our portfolio must transform to secure growth in areas of competitive advantage, while navigating significant uncertainty around the pace and shape of the energy transition. Building resilience, optionality and longevity for the decades to come is essential, alongside continuing to reset aspects of the organisation into a strong performance culture across Shell. Transforming this Company is a leadership ask of the highest order. The REMCO has carefully considered the nature of the leadership required to lead Shell for the performance opportunity ahead through multi-decade, multi-vector societal transition in a systemically important sector. The REMCO has therefore updated the benchmarking peer group to provide a guiding frame of companies with comparable leadership asks, stretched the long-term equity-based element of reward, and strengthened the performance framework to create the right incentives to deliver exceptional performance. 170 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report continued Pay benchmarking peer group As part of the Policy review, the REMCO spent time reviewing the pay benchmarking peer group. The REMCO has historically benchmarked Executive Director pay against a peer group comprising major European companies and global energy majors. Given the leadership challenge set out by the Board for the Company's transformation, the REMCO is resetting this pay benchmarking peer group to comprise major global companies in systemically important sectors going through multi-product, multi-decadal transition. Size continues to be a key factor in pay benchmarking. In addition, the sectors the REMCO has focused on are: energy, transport, pharmaceuticals, industrials and technology. Companies from all these sectors are already part of the existing peer group and so there is no change from that perspective. However, there is now a conscious choice for the pay benchmarking peer group to comprise comparably sized companies in these sectors. This focus is premised on the REMCO's view that there is something fundamentally different about leading in these sectors. These are the sectors at the heart of the energy transition and other global challenges. They are sectors on which other sectors depend and build, and are, therefore, deeply interconnected. They are deeply embedded in global supply chains, subject to regulatory and stakeholder scrutiny and high barriers to entry, and characterised by direct relevance to everyday life and being foundational layers of global economies. The REMCO sees strong commonalities in the leadership demands facing Shell and companies in these sectors, whether in long-term capital allocation, pace of innovation or driving transformative change at scale. Pay benchmarking – a focus on five sectors Following a comprehensive global selection process and consultation with shareholders, the REMCO selected an updated pay benchmarking peer group, as set out below. Energy Transport Pharmaceuticals Technology Industrials For the avoidance of doubt, the performance benchmarking peer group used in the share award (bp, Chevron, ExxonMobil and TotalEnergies) remains unchanged. bp BMW AstraZeneca Cisco Systems Boeing Chevron Mercedes-Benz Novartis IBM GE Aerospace ExxonMobil Volkswagen Pfizer Intel Siemens TotalEnergies Stellantis Roche Peer group selection methodology Shell is a truly global company, with only 11% of our revenue for 2025 generated in the UK, and less than 7% of our permanent employees (as at December 31, 2025) based in the UK. Close to 27% of revenue in 2025 is from North America (comprising the USA and Canada), and around 20% of employees (as at December 31, 2025) are based there, with the remainder from the rest of the world. Given Shell's global footprint, the REMCO's approach began with a universe of investable companies in global indices with good public pay disclosure, which was then narrowed and ranked by proximity of size, as measured by market capitalisation, revenue and total assets, and filtered for systemically important sectors, and then applied manual adjustments as appropriate (see next page). 171 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report continued Methodology for constructing new global peer group (for pay benchmarking) The new peer group overlaps with the existing peer group by around 50%. Proposed new global peer group (for pay benchmarking): size and pay [A] Based on the average value in 2025. [B] Based on latest reported financial year. [C] Target total direct compensation, comprising base salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives. Based on latest reported financial year. *Companies that are in the existing peer group are marked by an asterisk. Quantum The REMCO is proposing an increase in quantum in consideration of the continued transformation journey and the Board's performance expectations. In line with the leadership task of transformation for the long-term, the proposed increase in quantum is focused solely on the Performance Share Award (PSA). Further details are provided on page 191. 172 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report continued Performance framework The REMCO reflected on how to measure the leadership ask for the performance opportunity ahead. At CMD25, we extended our normalised FCF per share growth target out to 2030 to measure intrinsic value creation. The REMCO intends to strengthen the performance framework with the addition of this metric as a performance condition to the PSA. The 2026 performance conditions and link to strategy are as follows: Performance condition Weighting Purpose and link to strategy Relative Total shareholder return 20% ￮ Create value for our shareholders. ￮ Generate returns for shareholders that exceed those of our peers. Competitive capital allocation (measured by CFFO divided by average capital employed) 20% ￮ Generate competitive cash flows relative to the long-term funding of the business. ￮ Proxy for ROACE; generate returns that exceed those of our peers. Absolute Cash generation (measured by organic FCF) 20% ￮ Generate cash from the core ongoing operations of the portfolio, to fund growth, service and reduce debt and deliver shareholder returns. Intrinsic value creation (measured by normalised FCF per share growth, based on organic FCF before working capital and derivatives) 20% ￮ Create and grow intrinsic value independently of external market fluctuations or short-term investor sentiment. ￮ Optimise portfolio in line with strategy. Shell's journey in the energy transition 20% ￮ Reduce emissions from our operations and support our customers to reduce their emissions. Delivering normalised FCF per share growth requires disciplined cost management and capital spending, bringing on-stream accretive growth, improving underperforming businesses, exiting those that do not create value, as well as share buybacks. It differs from the other metrics in that it is a proxy for the ability to generate long-term, sustainable value within the Company independently of external market fluctuations or short-term investor sentiment. The normalised FCF metric uses organic FCF as the basis of measurement and excludes the volatility of working capital and derivatives and the impact of macroeconomic price movements, so as to determine a more comparable basis for calculating the growth year on year. Normalised FCF per share growth is determined on a compound annual growth rate basis by comparing the normalised FCF per share to the value from the 2024 base year [A]. Vesting will be assessed based on cumulative growth from 2024 through to the final year of the performance period. The REMCO has a robust approach to target setting. For the 2026 award, the performance target range will be 9% p.a. to 12% p.a. with a target of 10% p.a. To put this in context, the target set out at CMD25 is growth of >10% p.a. by 2030. Further information on the 2026 PSA performance conditions is set out on page 191. The REMCO has determined to retain the existing peer group (being bp, Chevron, ExxonMobil and TotalEnergies) and vesting schedule for the relative performance conditions. Outperforming Shell's closest competitors on key financial metrics is challenging. A vesting outcome of 80% of target (40% of maximum) for median performance in a small peer group is considered appropriate by the REMCO. The REMCO is aware that vesting for median is generally set at a limit of 25% of maximum for other UK companies. However, this is typically applied against a larger peer group. It is also noted that most UK companies would set full vesting at 75th percentile performance, rather than 80-100th percentile (first place) at Shell. The REMCO has a strong track record of setting stretching targets which ensure that reward outcomes are appropriate (note that the 10-average vesting outcome of the share award is close to target at 109% of target, or 55% of maximum) and will provide a full disclosure of all factors taken into account in making the vesting decision at the conclusion of each cycle. [A] See Non-GAAP measures on page 323 for normalised FCF per share reconciliation. 173 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report continued 2026 Remuneration Policy proposals Structure In considering Shell's remuneration structure, the REMCO reflected on alternative mechanisms, such as the restricted share and hybrid models. The REMCO concluded that while such arrangements have their merits, maintaining the FTSE-standard performance share model is the best way for Shell to preserve a sharp focus on pay for performance. Quantum The REMCO does not seek a particular pay position in the pay benchmarking peer group. It exercises judgement and does not intend to change that approach. The REMCO is proposing an increase in quantum in consideration of the nature of the leadership required to lead Shell through the continued transformation and the performance opportunity ahead. The REMCO continues to believe it is essential that Executive Director pay continues to support sustainable, long-term performance and strong shareholder alignment. Accordingly, the proposed increase in quantum is focused solely on the PSA, with the CEO's target opportunity increasing from 300% to 450% of salary. Maximum opportunity of 900% of salary will be delivered only for achievement of the highest quality of performance, requiring exceeding our internal targets and exceptional outperformance relative to peers (given a 40% weighting on relative performance conditions). The proposed quantum change moves the CEO's total pay from around 25th percentile to just below median of the updated pay benchmarking group. The REMCO will continue to enhance its approach to discretion to manage outcomes. Following a comprehensive review, the REMCO concluded that only a modest change would be made to the CFO's package. The CEO and the CFO are in a strong leadership partnership and play a critical role as a team in Shell's transformation. An increase in the target PSA from 270% to 300% of salary is proposed for the CFO (with a proposed maximum of 600% of salary), which does not alter her pay positioning vs. peers. The PSA proposals represent the first increase in Policy maximum since Shell's first shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy in 2013, and the REMCO further notes that the share award sizes reduced in the 2020 Policy. Shell percentile rank vs. global peers [A] Market capitalisation based on the average value in 2025; revenue and total assets based on latest reported financial year. [B] Target total direct compensation, comprising base salary, annual bonus and long-term incentives. Based on latest reported financial year. Subject to shareholder approval, the Policy changes will take effect from the 2026 AGM and are intended to apply to the 2026 share awards. Awards within the confines of the current Policy were made to both Executive Directors in February 2026, of 300% and 270% of salary to the CEO and the CFO, respectively. Subject to shareholder approval of the revised Policy, a further share award of 150% and 30% of salary will be made to the CEO and the CFO, respectively, following the 2026 AGM, bringing awards for 2026 into line with the award levels under the revised Policy, i.e. 450% and 300% of salary for the CEO and the CFO, respectively. Discretionary framework The REMCO has determined to retain and further strengthen the existing discretionary framework for assessing annual pay outcomes relative to the quality of performance outcomes, so that it may take into account the overall level of remuneration for the Executive Directors, Shell's performance, shareholder experience, the operation of the remuneration structures, the internal context for other employees and any other relevant factors to ensure that the highest variable pay outcomes are achieved only in years with the highest-quality performance. As before, in years where the vesting outcome makes the total remuneration inappropriate for any Executive Director, the REMCO will consider an adjustment to the annual bonus outcome and/or the PSA vesting outcome for the purposes of managing remuneration quantum. Shareholding requirements and bonus deferral The proposed Policy also sets out an increase to the shareholding requirements, from 700% to 900% of salary for the CEO, and from 500% to 550% of salary for the CFO. The new requirement levels are close to the top of the FTSE and the new global peer group, and broadly consistent with the new maximum PSA opportunities. A revision to bonus holding arrangements is also proposed, so that if an Executive Director has met their shareholding requirement, 75% (rather than 50%) of net-of-tax bonus will be delivered in cash and 25% in shares subject to the usual three-year holding period. This proposed change balances greater financial flexibility for individuals who have built up significant holdings with continued shareholder alignment. The share award post-vesting holding arrangements remain unchanged, with a three-year holding period compared to the more typical two-year period for many other UK companies. Other Policy proposals considered The above proposals reflect the results of a comprehensive review by the REMCO, during which alternative ideas were also considered. These are described below, along with the supporting rationale for our eventual, selected approach. Alternative proposal Rationale for our selected approach Increase salary only ￮ Increasing fixed pay only does not provide appropriate performance alignment. Increase the annual bonus opportunity instead of/in addition to the PSA ￮ The REMCO determined that focusing the increase solely on the PSA was more in line with the leadership task of transformation for the long-term. ￮ The resulting pay mix better reflects that observed at the global peer companies. Phase the proposed increases ￮ A phased approach is not aligned with Shell's philosophy around simplification, and would specifically pose challenges to metric selection and weighting. 174 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Directors' Remuneration Report continued Shareholder consultation As part of the Policy review, Shell engaged with large institutional shareholders. Overall, shareholders were supportive of the proposed quantum, including the new peer group and case for change. On the PSA performance conditions, the rationale for introducing normalised FCF per share growth was well understood with some very supportive voices. There was also appreciation for the simplicity of the overall remuneration design. I would like to thank everyone we engaged with for their valuable contributions, which helped us to shape the detail of the proposed Policy. 2026 remuneration 2026 salaries Effective January 1, 2026, Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman received a salary increase of 4.0%, and their salaries for 2026 are £1,596,000 and £1,055,000, respectively. In reviewing their salaries, the REMCO considered carefully the external environment, including the increases provided to Shell's workforce in the key markets of the UK (4.1%), the USA (3.0%) and the Netherlands (3.0%). The Executive Directors' increases for 2026 were positioned just below the average UK increase. 2026 annual bonus There will be no change to the overall annual bonus scorecard architecture, structure or weightings for 2026. Given the evolution of the business, and the shift in focus to value over volume, the supporting customer decarbonisation metric will move from assessing the number of electric vehicle charge points to electric vehicle gross margin growth. 2026 Performance Share Award performance conditions The performance conditions for the 2026 PSA are discussed earlier in this letter, and further details are provided on page 191. Looking ahead I hope that you find that this report presents a clear account of the REMCO's decisions for the year. This year brings the vote on the proposed Policy at the AGM, and I look forward to ongoing dialogue with our shareholders in the coming months. Cyrus Taraporevala Chair of the Remuneration Committee 175 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance Annual Report on Remuneration 176 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out: ￮ remuneration at a glance, page 176; ￮ the REMCO's responsibilities and activities, page 177; ￮ Directors' remuneration for 2025, pages 178 and 186; and ￮ the statement of the planned implementation of Policy in 2026, page 190. The base currency in the Directors' Remuneration Report is British pound sterling (GBP), which is the base salary currency for the Executive Directors. Where amounts are shown in other currencies, an average exchange rate for the relevant year is used, unless a specific date is stated, in which case the exchange rate for the specific date is used. REMCO membership [A] Member since January 1, 2026. Attendance during 2025 Biographies can be found on pages 140-145; and REMCO meeting attendance during 2025 is set out below: REMCO member Member since Meetings attended % of meetings attended Cyrus Taraporevala (Chair) [B] October 30, 2024 6/6 100% Dick Boer [C] May 23, 2023 5/6 83% Jane H. Lute May 23, 2023 6/6 100% Bram Schot May 24, 2022 6/6 100% Neil Carson OBE [D] June 1, 2019 2/2 100% [B] Cyrus Taraporevala was appointed as REMCO Chair with effect from May 20, 2025. [C] Dick Boer was unable to attend the August 2025 meeting due to another scheduled business commitment. [D] Neil Carson OBE stepped down as a member of the REMCO with effect from May 20, 2025. The REMCO's key responsibilities include determining: Senior Management [A] Executive Directors Executive Committee Company Secretary and EVP Controller & Finance Operations Performance framework P X X Remuneration Policy P P X Actual remuneration and benefits P P P Annual bonus and long-term incentive measures and targets P P P [A] In the Directors' Remuneration Report, Senior Management is defined as Executive Directors, other Executive Committee members, Company Secretary, and EVP Controller & Finance Operations. The REMCO determines remuneration for the Chair of the Board and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior executives. The REMCO also considers workforce remuneration and related policies, and how pay and benefits align with culture. In exercising its responsibilities, the REMCO takes into account a variety of stakeholder considerations. Delivering Shell's continued transformation is a leadership challenge of the highest order. Much of the REMCO's work over the past year has focused on considering the scale of the leadership ask and how remuneration can support this ambition. The REMCO Terms of Reference are reviewed annually (last reviewed in February 2026 with non-substantive changes made) and are available on shell.com. To support the REMCO in carrying out its duties, input was provided by: ￮ Chief Executive Officer (CEO); ￮ Chief Human Resources and Corporate Officer, who also acted as Secretary to the REMCO; and ￮ Executive Vice President Performance and Reward. The Chair of the Board was consulted on remuneration proposals affecting the CEO. The CEO was consulted on proposals relating to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Senior Management. The REMCO met six times in 2025, and its activities included: ￮ reviewing the Remuneration Policy and considering changes, with the resulting proposed Policy to be put to a shareholder vote at the 2026 AGM; ￮ determining final 2024 bonus outcomes for Senior Management; ￮ determining vesting of the 2022 share award [A] for Senior Management; ￮ determining 2025 target bonus opportunities and 2025 PSA for Senior Management; ￮ setting 2025 bonus and PSA performance measures and targets; ￮ approving the 2024 Directors' Remuneration Report; ￮ reviewing 2026 bonus and PSA performance measures and targets; ￮ engaging with major shareholders and proxy bodies on remuneration matters; ￮ setting remuneration in relation to changes in the Executive Committee; ￮ setting the Chair's remuneration; and ￮ monitoring external developments and assessing the impact on remuneration decisions. [A] Share awards made to Executive Directors prior to 2025 were referred to as Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) awards. From 2025, such awards are referred to as PSA. After a competitive tender process, Ellason was appointed by the REMCO and provided external advice on remuneration market practice. The choice of Ellason was based on its knowledge of investors' expectations and familiarity with UK market practices. Ellason is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group. The REMCO is satisfied that the advice provided was objective and independent. The total fees in relation to Ellason's advice were £77,565 (excluding value-added tax). The REMCO also reviewed analysis prepared by Shell's internal HR function, which included input from other functions such as finance. 177 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued Directors' remuneration for 2025 Single figure of total remuneration for Executive Directors (audited) £ thousand Wael Sawan Sinead Gorman 2025 2024 2025 2024 Salaries [A] 1,535 1,455 1,014 961 Taxable benefits [B] 77 45 35 32 Pension [C] 307 291 203 192 Total fixed remuneration 1,919 1,791 1,252 1,186 Annual bonus [D] 2,725 2,925 1,800 1,930 Share award [E] 9,112 3,899 5,418 4,136 Total variable remuneration 11,837 6,824 7,218 6,066 Total remuneration 13,756 8,615 8,470 7,251 in US dollars 18,140 11,012 11,169 9,269 in euros 16,057 10,177 9,887 8,566 [A] Base salary: Wael Sawan's base salary for 2025 was set at £1,535,000 (+5.5% from 2024). Sinead Gorman's base salary for 2025 was set at £1,014,000 (+5.5% from 2024). [B] Benefits: in respect of 2025, Wael Sawan's benefits included a one-off payment related to tax liabilities arising from his move to the UK, in line with Shell's international mobility policy (£28,253), car allowance (£29,890),and tax gross-up costs (£14,253). Sinead Gorman's benefits included car allowance (£29,890). [C] Pension: Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman received cash in lieu of pension contributions equal to 20% of base salary in 2025. [D] Annual bonus: the full value of the bonus in respect of performance in 2025, comprising both the 50% delivered in cash and 50% bonus delivered in shares. The market price of shares on February 26, 2026, for London-listed shares (£30.11) was used to determine the number of shares delivered, resulting in 23,980 ordinary shares for Wael Sawan and 15,841 ordinary shares for Sinead Gorman, net of tax. [E] Share award: the amounts reported for 2025 relate to the 2023 award, which vested on March 4, 2026, at the market price for London-listed shares of £30.84. The value is calculated as the product of: (i) the number of shares of the original award multiplied by the vesting percentage, plus accrued dividend shares, and (ii) the market price of ordinary shares at the vesting date. Share price appreciation accounted for £1,736,892 for Wael Sawan and £1,032,821 for Sinead Gorman. Notes to the table: Single figure of total remuneration for Executive Directors (audited) Pension During the year, Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman were eligible to participate in the defined contribution UK Shell Pension Plan with an employer contribution rate of up to 20% of salary, or take this as a pension cash alternative. The UK Shell Pension Plan or associated pension cash alternative is available to new Shell employees in the UK at the same contribution levels, and currently around two thirds of UK employees participate in these arrangements. The majority of the remainder participate in a legacy defined benefit plan, which closed to new members in March 2013. Annual bonus The annual bonus is intended to reward the delivery of short-term targets, typically derived from the Operating Plan. The REMCO reviews the bonus measures, weightings and targets annually to evolve with Shell's strategy and circumstances, and to ensure that the targets remain stretching but realistic. For 2025, the mathematical bonus outcome was 1.48. The REMCO reviewed performance against the scorecard, as described below. Further information is on page 180. Financial delivery (35% weighting): CFFO allows us to run and invest in our businesses and make shareholder distributions. We delivered $42.9 billion of CFFO against our target of $43 billion, driven by strong operational performance and solid commercial delivery. As a reminder, the REMCO has a long-standing policy of not adjusting CFFO to take account of changes in energy prices and currency fluctuations. This policy supports alignment between pay outcomes and the shareholder experience. Operational excellence (35%): Operational excellence underpins delivery to our customers and drives financial performance. In 2025, overall operational excellence performance was above target. ￮ Asset management excellence: Upstream controllable availability was outstanding, driven by performance in Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Norway, Oman and the Gulf of America. Midstream availability was outstanding, thanks to excellent reliability in Qatar and Australia, and the successful completion of turnarounds. Refining and Chemicals availability exceeded the plan, mainly due to strong performance at Deer Park and Rheinland Refinery, offsetting a shortfall at Monaca. ￮ Project delivery excellence: Highlights for the year in project delivery include the successful start-up of 21 projects, including Whale in the Gulf of America, Penguins restart in the UK, Mero-4 in Brazil and the first export cargo at LNG Canada Trains 1 and 2. ￮ Customer excellence: Customer satisfaction index remained strong, following our focus on performance, continuous improvement of e-commerce platforms and the resilience of our teams. Our Brand Share Preference continued to be outstanding, and was performing ahead of target in all regions. Shell's journey in the energy transition (15%): This metric reflects progress on our longer-term strategic ambitions. The overall score was above target for the year. ￮ LNG volumes [A]: Performance is measured based on liquefaction volumes. Our score for LNG liquefaction volumes reflects strong operational performance across most Integrated Gas assets and a maintenance programme with no major delays. [A] Equity liquefaction. 178 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued ￮ Reducing operational emissions: 1,238 thousand tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions reductions were achieved from abatement, renewable energy and permanent shutdowns or conversions ("right-sizing"). The main contributors were multiple transformation projects in Rheinland in Germany (Downstream and Renewables), compressor electrification in Canada (Integrated Gas) and catalyst improvements in Qatar (Integrated Gas). ￮ Supporting customer decarbonisation: We have continued to expand our network of electric vehicle charge points, mainly driven by growth in China and Ubitricity's portfolio. The business is focused on building a leaner, more profitable e-Mobility network to deliver long-term success. Safety (15%): It remains our priority to run our day-to-day operations safely and ensure the well-being of all our people. The overall outcome for safety is above target for 2025. ￮ Process safety: Performance continues to be measured through the number of Tier 1 and 2 operational safety incidents. There were 62 Tier 1 and 2 operational process safety events reported in 2025, which was an improvement compared with our performance in 2024. ￮ Personal safety: Performance is assessed based on the frequency of serious incidents which occur in Shell's businesses. Our ultimate goal is zero harm to people working for Shell. There were tragically four fatalities and four serious injuries in 2025, highlighting the need for our ongoing focus on Goal Zero. The REMCO reflected carefully on these events and Shell's broader safety performance and determined that the bonus outcome should be adjusted downwards from 1.48 to 1.42 (see "The REMCO's reflections on safety" below). The REMCO's reflections on safety Safety, along with our core values, underpins our strategy. We aim to do no harm to people and to have no leaks across our operations. We call this our Goal Zero ambition. In 2025, Shell used fatality and permanent impairment (FPI) as our scorecard measure for personal safety performance. We focus on FPIs because they represent the most serious harm that can occur in our operations, and concentrating on them ensures we prioritise the risks that matter most to keeping people safe. This focus also aligns Shell with the IOGP industry standard, simplifies and strengthens how we learn from high-impact events and helps us direct our attention, assurance and resources to where they will have the greatest effect on preventing life-altering harm. Following discussions with shareholders in 2023, the REMCO adopted a discretionary framework to guide its decisions regarding the impact of fatalities on remuneration. The framework takes account of multiple reflection points, as set out below. This framework supports holistic and detailed consideration of the circumstances arising, and consistent and fair judgement of safety performance over time. Circumstances In February 2025, a fire occurred at the EcoOils facility in Malaysia, resulting in a contractor colleague sustaining second-degree burns and passing away from his injuries. In February 2026, Malaysia's Department of Occupational Safety and Health concluded that the incident occurred due to a failure to assess the risks associated with the cleaning activity and levied a fine of value of MYR 50,000 (equivalent to $12,800). In April 2025, a contractor colleague on a drillship in Malaysia was struck and pinned by the sliding panel of a watertight door as it automatically closed, and passed away. In July 2025, a contractor-operated minibus was involved in a collision with a third-party truck on a rural road in Argentina, resulting in two fatalities, including a contractor colleague and the truck driver. In November 2025, there was an incident in the UK where a contractor colleague died following a fall from height, which remains under internal investigation. The UK regulator, the Health and Safety Executive, concluded that there was a failure to make an assessment of the risks to the health and safety of employees. Internal investigations, launched to understand the "what" and "why", discover any thematic failures, and gain insights and learnings for the future, have concluded that while there are lessons to be learned and more to do, the incidents were not considered repetitive or systemic failures. Wider safety context During 2025, we continued our focus on enhancing how we prepare for and conduct high-risk activities by: (i) improving our preparation and execution of front-line work; (ii) building an environment of trust and learning; and (iii) using technology to reduce exposure and identify conditions that could lead to serious incidents. There were no material safety events beyond those included in standard reporting focusing on work-related incidents at Shell-operated ventures. Personal safety performance 2003–2025 Conclusions Safety performance at Shell has improved significantly over time, with structural improvements made. In 2025, we met our scorecard targets on safety, but analysis of underlying performance shows there are still vulnerabilities that require leadership and constant vigilance at all levels. After careful consideration of Shell's holistic safety performance in 2025 including the outcome of the formal metrics, the in-year fatalities and Shell's long-term progress on safety, the REMCO has determined that the scorecard outcome for Executive Directors should be adjusted downwards from 1.48 to 1.42. The reduction in the bonus outcome as a result of the adjustment is equal to around 8% of salary for both Executive Directors. 179 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued The table below summarises the 2025 annual bonus scorecard measures including their weightings, targets and outcomes. 2025 annual bonus scorecard measures and weightings [A] Upstream controllable availability: 89.2% (Threshold 83.3%, Target 85.3%, Outstanding 87.3%); Midstream availability: 90.3% (Threshold 86.0%, Target 88.0%, Outstanding 90.0%); Chemicals and Refinery availability: 94.1% (Threshold 92.9%, Target 93.9%, Outstanding 94.9%). Performance assessment is equally weighted between Upstream, Midstream, and Chemicals and Refining. [B] Projects delivered on schedule: 84% (Threshold 50%, Target 75%, Outstanding 100%); project delivery on budget: 99.8% (Threshold 107.5%, Target 101.5%, Outstanding 95.5%). Performance assessment is equally weighted between projects delivered on schedule and on budget. [C] Customer Satisfaction Index: 8.5 (Threshold 7.6, Target 8.1, Outstanding 8.6); Brand Share Preference: 17.3% (Threshold 12.1%, Target 13.6–14.0%, Outstanding 15.6%). Performance assessment is equally weighted between Customer Satisfaction Index and Brand Share Preference. [D] Equity liquefaction. [E] An adjustment was applied to exclude 4,407 electric vehicle charge points divested effective January 2, 2026. [F] The overall scorecard outcome was adjusted downwards from 1.48 to 1.42 in consideration of safety performance. Accordingly, the REMCO decided the final bonus outcome should be 142% of target (71% of maximum). This results in a bonus of £2,724,625 for Wael Sawan and £1,799,850 for Sinead Gorman. 2025 bonus outcome calculation 180 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2023 share award vesting In 2023, Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman were granted conditional share awards. The table below summarises the performance conditions, weightings, targets and outcomes. 2023 share award vesting outcomes – performance measures [A] TSR over the performance period was 44.7%. The REMCO reviewed Shell's broader performance over the performance period, and also reflected on the share price at award and on vesting, noting that the share price had increased by 28%, and that appreciation accounted for 19% of the total value of the award at vesting, and was satisfied that no windfall gain had arisen. The REMCO decided that the vesting outcome was consistent with the target opportunity and intended operation of the plan under the current Policy and appropriate, and therefore no adjustment to the vesting outcome was required. Accordingly, the REMCO decided that the award should vest at 149% of target (equivalent to 75% of maximum). 2023 share award vesting outcome 181 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued Our carbon targets In 2025, we continued to make progress against our climate-related targets and ambition. At the end of 2025, we had reduced our Scope 1 and 2 operational emissions by 36%, and the NCI of our energy products by 9.0%, from our 2016 baseline. [A] Average intensity, weighted by sales volume, of the energy products we sell, on an equity boundary, net of carbon credits. Estimated total GHG emissions included in NCI reflect well-to-wheel emissions associated with energy products sold by Shell. This includes the well-to-tank emissions associated with the manufacturing of energy products by others that are sold by Shell. 2023 share award energy transition performance condition: outcome Shell's strategy is to deliver more value with less emissions, providing the oil and gas people need today, while helping to build the energy system of the future. The performance condition for Shell's journey in the energy transition is determined by the REMCO based on a holistic view of achievement of strategic intent, using performance indicators as guidance. This approach supports learning through the development of new businesses and business models and understanding of solutions Shell can profitably deliver to help achieve our strategy to deliver more value with less emissions. At the outset of Shell's energy transition journey, the strategy was intentionally designed as a learning journey – taking strategic positions, observing market and regulatory evolution and adapting based on experience. This cycle reflects that philosophy, with an emphasis on high-grading the portfolio, and focusing on competitive strengths that deliver shareholder value, with disciplined investment and execution. Shell's energy transition strategy is firmly focused on the highest-return opportunities – leading in the energy transition where we have competitive strengths, see strong customer demand, identify clear regulatory support from governments and where we can create most impact – creating more value with less emissions. For 2023 share awards, assessment of performance is based on NCI reduction against the 2016 base year and supporting strategic themes of reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions; building a renewable power business; growing new low-carbon energy offerings; and developing emission sinks and offsets. Net carbon intensity (NCI) The target for the 2023–2025 share award cycle to reduce our NCI by 9–13% compared with the 2016 base year was met with a 9.0% reduction by the end of 2025. In making its decision, the REMCO reviewed how the target was met including the use of emission offsets, such as carbon credits, and the retirement of Renewable Energy Certificates, recognising the importance of these in the energy transition. Reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions Shell has a target to reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions under Shell's operational control by 50% by 2030, on a net basis (compared with the 2016 baseline). The REMCO noted the progress being made towards this target with a reduction of 36% achieved by the end of 2025. 182 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued Growing the Power business During the performance cycle, management strategically repositioned the Power business, shifting from capital-intensive renewables development to a capital-light, trading-led, asset-backed model to leverage Shell's strengths in trading, optimisation and B2B customer relationships. Shell exited a number of non-strategic and lower-return renewables positions, particularly across onshore and offshore wind and solar, including the sale of interests in SouthCoast Wind Energy LLC, Brazos Wind and Madison Fields Solar, Cleantech Renewable Assets and five US solar projects via a new joint venture with Ares. In addition, Shell withdrew from Atlantic Shores Offshore Wind and exited two floating wind projects in Scotland (MarramWind and CampionWind). These actions reduced exposure to assets under development and enabled capital to be redirected towards higher-return opportunities, supporting the goal of returns of around 10% across the Power portfolio by 2030 as referenced at CMD25. Alongside divestments, selective projects progressed into operation, including the Hollandse Kust Noord offshore wind park in the Netherlands and capacity growth through Sprng Energy in India. The business increased its focus on flexible generation and system support, including the acquisition of RISEC Holdings in the USA and the contracting of battery storage across several regions. The Power trading business continued to grow in scale and profitability, supported by targeted acquisitions of Ego, a manager of small renewables assets in Italy, and Prime, a power marketer in Brazil, investment in scalable IT platforms and tighter working capital discipline. Growing low-carbon offerings Shell continued to leverage its position as one of the world's largest energy traders and biofuels blenders, trading more than 10 billion litres of low‑carbon fuels, while investing selectively in low‑ and zero‑carbon products, such as hydrogen, and in carbon removals. Throughout the performance cycle, the focus remained on working closely with customers to identify commercially viable pathways to decarbonisation. In hydrogen, Shell maintained a measured approach as regulatory frameworks and infrastructure mature. Key milestones included continued development of Holland Hydrogen I in the Netherlands, expected to be Europe's largest green hydrogen [A] plant at 200 MW once operational, and a final investment decision on Refhyne II, a 100 MW green hydrogen project at the Rheinland refinery in Germany. Shell further expanded its biofuels platform, supplying products such as sustainable aviation fuel (SAF), renewable diesel and biogas to the aviation, road transport and marine sectors. In 2023, Shell acquired Nature Energy, one of Europe's largest biogas producers, and by 2025 operated 17 biogas plants, across Europe and the USA. During the period, Shell also became one of the world's largest traders and suppliers of SAF, accounting for close to 20% of SAF sales in North America and Europe through Shell Aviation. The decision not to restart construction of the HEFA biofuels facility in Rotterdam, while difficult, demonstrated continued discipline in capital allocation in light of market conditions. In 2025, we continued investment in the EcoOils waste oil platform acquired in 2022, with construction of Project Mentari: this plant is the latest addition to the five already in operation in Malaysia and Indonesia. EcoOils' waste oils are a valuable feedstock for HEFA plants producing SAF and a strategic control point of the biofuels value chain. Alongside biofuels and hydrogen, Shell continued to assess emerging longer‑term opportunities, including e‑fuels for aviation and shipping, advanced carbon removal technologies such as Direct Air Capture and innovative products like immersion cooling fluids to improve energy efficiency in data centres. Shell Ventures complemented this approach through minority investments that provide exposure to emerging technologies while limiting capital risk. Developing emission sinks During the performance cycle, Shell progressed several carbon capture and storage (CCS) projects. Final investment decisions were taken on Northern Lights Phase II, and operations commenced at Northern Lights Phase I. Shell also announced final investment decisions on Project Polaris, a carbon capture project at Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Scotford in Canada, alongside Project Atlas, a carbon storage hub developed in partnership with ATCO EnPower. The first phase of Atlas will provide permanent underground storage for CO 2 captured by the Polaris project. Nature Based Solutions (NBS) also continued to evolve. While shortfalls in earlier years reflected regulatory and verification delays and portfolio changes, progress is expected to recover through projects such as Aider, which supports conservation of approximately 173,000 hectares of the Peruvian Amazon, and Select Carbon, a specialist in developing and aggregating carbon farming projects. The divestment of Climate Bridge in 2024 adjusted delivery expectations, with the overall strategy increasingly focused on enabling growth through third‑party capital and partnerships. Conclusion Over the 2023–2025 performance cycle, Shell made progress in its energy transition strategy, while maintaining a clear focus on capital discipline and shareholder value. The NCI target was met within the stated range, supported by portfolio actions, low‑carbon offerings and the appropriate use of offsets and certificates. Progress was also made in reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions under operational control, advancing towards Shell's 2030 target. Across the Power business, low‑carbon products and emissions sinks, management demonstrated strategic repositioning, actively high‑grading the portfolio, exiting lower‑return activities and investing selectively in scalable, commercially viable platforms aligned to Shell's competitive strengths. In reaching its overall assessment, the REMCO noted that progress reflected disciplined decision‑making, responsiveness to market and regulatory conditions, and the retention of strategic optionality to scale as demand and frameworks evolve. The REMCO concluded that performance across the energy transition measures was aligned with shareholder interests and long‑term value creation, determining the vesting outcome for this element of the award at 120% of target. [A] The colour terminology of hydrogen, whether grey, blue or green, denotes which production methods were used to create the clean-burning, low-carbon fuel. The resulting fuel associated with each method is the same. Green hydrogen is produced through the electrolysis of water using renewable energy. 183 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued Consideration of 2025 single figure outcomes In determining the final single figure outcomes for 2025, the REMCO also considered the personal performance of the Executive Directors. Personal performance 2025 was another year of strong and decisive leadership from the Executive Directors. CMD25 set out the next steps in the execution of the Company's strategy, strengthening commitment to value creation and maintaining focus on performance, discipline and simplification. CMD25 raised the bar across our key financial targets, investing where we have competitive strengths and delivering more for our shareholders. Detailed information on Shell's performance by the end of 2025 against specific remuneration targets is set out on pages 178 (relating to 2025 annual bonus) and 181 (relating to 2023 share award vesting outcome); key achievements included: ￮ delivered strong shareholder distributions in 2025 of 52% of CFFO*, at the top end of the CMD25 commitment of 40–50% of CFFO through the cycle. TSR over the 2023–2025 share award performance period outperformed peers; ￮ delivered strong financial results with CFFO of $42.9 billion against plan target of $43 billion, Adjusted Earnings* of $18.5 billion and FCF* of $26.1 billion; ￮ maintained a resilient balance sheet in a softer macroeconomic environment; ￮ continued structural cost reductions across the organisation, delivering $5.1 billion since 2022 against the CMD25 commitment of $5-7 billion by 2028; ￮ continued to drive capital discipline, with cash capital expenditure in 2025 below the target range for the year and creating a culture in which a focus on value creation is central; ￮ continued high-grading the portfolio: finalising the sale of our loss-making Chemicals and Products asset in Singapore, completing the sale of SPDC in Nigeria, which concluded a multi-year effort, and stopping the construction of the HEFA biofuels plant in Rotterdam; ￮ completed the Adura Energy Limited joint venture, creating the North Sea's largest independent producer and unlocking additional value through the new partnership; ￮ started up LNG Canada, a major greenfield project in an advantaged geographical location; ￮ strengthened the deep-water position in the Gulf of America, Brazil and Nigeria through a number of final investment decisions (FID) and deepening working interest in advantaged assets; ￮ delivered best-ever Adjusted Earnings in Mobility and Lubricants through execution of value over volume strategy and high-grading the portfolio; ￮ continued focus on climate performance, including progress against the target to halve Scope 1 and 2 emissions under operational control by 2030 on a net basis compared with 2016 and achieving the ambition to eliminate 100% of routine flaring from our upstream operations; and ￮ continued focus on personal and process safety performance. Wael Sawan Wael Sawan has steered Shell through a year of increased geo-political uncertainty and a softer macro, delivering on targets and positioning the organisation to be resilient into the future. Wael Sawan has demonstrated clear and decisive leadership, driving growth where we have a competitive advantage, embedding capital discipline across the portfolio, and making tough decisions to pause and address performance challenges where needed. The businesses had a strong year operationally and financially, building on strong momentum from 2024. There has been continued high-grading of the portfolio with a sharp focus on core capabilities and strengths to shape the portfolio into the future. The roll-out of "This is Shell" across the organisation complements the continued focus on competitive performance with a simple and cohesive framework that sets out Shell's purpose, vision, strategy, operating model, values and culture. The culture journey is essential to delivering competitive performance. Wael Sawan has continued to shape the broader energy conversation through engagements at events including, for example, CERAWeek, Gastech, OPEC International Seminar and Energy Asia, and through engagement with political leaders, regulators and other stakeholders. The key highlights from the CEO have been strengthening capital discipline, deepening performance culture and delivering on commitments. Sinead Gorman Working closely with the CEO, Sinead Gorman has continued to drive a disciplined, high-performance culture where we learn and adapt. The year has been characterised by strong financial results, a healthy balance sheet and effective risk management. Sinead Gorman has steered disciplined capital stewardship and effective management of Shell's financial framework, allowing Shell to meet its organisational objectives and commitments to shareholders as well as enabling future success. Her leadership of CMD25 was outstanding and strongly received by the investor community. The REMCO also considered a range of other factors in finalising its remuneration decisions for 2025, including: ￮ Shell's performance in 2025 and over the share award performance period 2023–2025, and the formulaic outcomes of the bonus and the share award; ￮ absolute and relative TSR performance over the period; ￮ the impact of fatalities on the formulaic scorecard outcome; ￮ a range of factors that take account of Shell's performance beyond the formulaic outcomes of the variable pay structures, including safety, reputation, ethics and compliance, and feedback from the Audit and Risk and Sustainability Committees; ￮ the external environment and wider stakeholder experience, including shareholders' expectations with regard to executive pay decision-making and the employee experience; ￮ the Executive Directors' remuneration compared with the variable pay outcomes for the general workforce; ￮ the alignment of the Executive Directors with the shareholder experience through their high shareholding requirements; and ￮ the Executive Directors' remuneration compared with historical outcomes. After reflecting on the above factors, the REMCO was satisfied with the single figure outcomes for the CEO and the CFO. Malus and clawback No malus or clawback provisions were invoked in respect of the Executive Directors during 2025. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. 184 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2025 Performance Share Awards Scheme interests awarded to Executive Directors in 2025 (audited) On January 31, 2025, PSAs were made to the Executive Directors, as set out in the table below. In approving the awards, the REMCO considered Shell's historical share price, including the share price over the prior year, and noted that the share price at award was in line with that in 2024 and was higher than average historical levels. The REMCO determined that the risk of windfall gain was limited, and therefore no adjustment was made to the award size. Scheme interest type Type of interest awarded End of performance period Target award [A] Potential amount vesting Minimum performance (% of shares awarded) [B] Maximum performance (% of shares of the target award) PSA Performance shares December 31, 2027 Wael Sawan: 162,964 London-listed ordinary shares, equivalent to 300% × base salary or £4,364,991. Sinead Gorman: 96,871 London-listed ordinary shares, equivalent to 270% × base salary or £2,594,690. 0 Maximum number of shares vesting is 200% of the shares awarded, before dividends. [A] The awards for both Executive Directors were made based on the closing market price on the date of award, January 31, 2025, for ordinary shares of £26.79. [B] Minimum performance relates to the lowest level of achievement, for which there is no vesting. The performance conditions and weightings applying to the 2025 PSAs were: relative TSR (25% of award), relative competitive capital allocation (25%), absolute organic FCF (25%) and energy transition (25%). Relative performance conditions The relative performance conditions are based on our performance on key measures against our closest comparators. TSR measures actual value created for shareholders (i.e. change in share price plus dividends) and, as in prior years, is calculated in US dollars using a 90-day averaging period. Competitive capital allocation is defined as CFFO divided by average capital employed, and measures Shell's ability to generate competitive cash flows relative to the long-term funding of the business. Vesting under each relative performance condition is assessed independently, with the vesting outcome ranging from 0% to 200% of the target award in respect of the measure, in accordance with the following vesting schedule: ￮ ranking first equals 200% vesting; ￮ ranking second equals 150% vesting; ￮ ranking third equals 80% vesting; and ￮ ranking fourth or fifth equals 0% vesting. Outperforming Shell's closest competitors on key financial metrics is challenging. The REMCO is aware that vesting for median performance is generally set at a limit of 25% of maximum for other UK companies, but notes that this is typically applied against a larger comparator group. A vesting outcome of 80% for median performance (40% of maximum) in a small comparator group is considered appropriate by the REMCO. Absolute measures Organic free cash flow The organic FCF performance condition supports the delivery of our cash flow priorities, which are to fund growth, service and reduce debt and deliver shareholder returns. * Non-GAAP measure. See page 323. The most comparable GAAP financial measure for organic FCF is cash flow from operating activities of $42.9 billion for 2025. The performance targets for organic FCF are set by reference to Shell's annual operating plans, based on the sum of annual organic FCF targets over the three-year performance period, with each annual target reflecting updates such as a changing price premise. The REMCO believes it is more appropriate to set the target based on the aggregation of the annual operating plans rather than setting a three-year target at the outset and making adjustments at the end. The organic FCF targets are disclosed retrospectively and in aggregate, following the conclusion of the three-year period. Under the organic FCF performance condition, achievement of threshold performance will result in 40% of the target award (20% of maximum) in respect of the organic FCF vesting, increasing to full vesting for achievement of outstanding performance. A straight-line vesting schedule will apply for performance between threshold and outstanding. Energy transition For the 2025 award, the REMCO's determination of the extent to which awards will vest will be based on its holistic assessment of progress towards reducing emissions from our operations and supporting customers to reduce their emissions. The key factors in the REMCO's decision will be disclosed at the end of the performance period (unless commercially sensitive). For further details of the 2025 energy transition performance condition, see the 2024 Directors' Remuneration Report. For information on Shell's energy transition, see the Energy Transition Strategy 2024 on shell.com. Performance update on organic FCF 2024 share award At December 31, 2025, organic FCF* performance was above target, with an outcome of $37.5 billion for 2024 (target $24.0 billion) and $25.7 billion for 2025 (target $24.0 billion). As one year of organic FCF performance remains, and 75% of the award is subject to relative and energy transition performance conditions, this does not necessarily reflect the potential vesting of the award. 2025 share award At December 31, 2025, organic FCF* performance was above target, based on $25.7 billion for 2025 (target $24.0 billion). As two years of organic FCF performance remain, and 75% of the award is subject to relative and energy transition performance conditions, this does not necessarily reflect the potential vesting of the award. 185 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued Single figure of total remuneration for Non-executive Directors (audited) £ thousand Fees Taxable benefits [A] Total 2025 2024 2025 2024 2025 2024 Dick Boer 220 220 15 9 235 229 Neil Carson OBE 151 177 5 9 156 186 Ann Godbehere 186 186 44 36 230 222 Jane H. Lute 166 166 [B] 22 59 188 225 Catherine Hughes 192 196 [B] 28 31 220 227 Sir Andrew Mackenzie 850 850 [C] 2 1 852 851 Sir Charles Roxburgh 149 165 [B] 36 116 185 281 Bram Schot 150 150 9 10 159 160 Leena Srivastava 151 155 [B] 16 15 167 170 Cyrus Taraporevala 193 168 [B] 28 44 220 211 [A] UK regulations require the inclusion of benefits where these would be taxable in the UK, on the assumption that Directors are tax residents in the UK. On this premise, the taxable benefits include the cost of a Non-executive Director's occasional business-required partner travel. Shell also pays for travel between home and the head office, where Board and Committee meetings are typically held, and related hotel and subsistence costs. For consistency, business expenses for travel between home and the head office are not reported as taxable benefits because for most Non-executive Directors this is international travel and hence would not be taxable in the UK. [B] Fees disclosed are those in respect of 2024, of which £12,000 was paid in 2025. [C] Fees disclosed are those in respect of 2024, of which £65,000 was paid in 2025. Statement of Directors' shareholding and share interests (audited) Shareholding guidelines The REMCO believes that Executive Directors should align their interests with those of shareholders by holding shares in Shell plc. Only unfettered shares count towards an Executive Director's shareholding. Shares delivered that are subject to holding requirements also count towards the guidelines. The CEO and the CFO have five years from their respective appointment to the Board to achieve their respective shareholding requirements. There is a Company-sponsored nominee account for each Executive Director, which allows for restrictions to be applied on the sale or transfer of shares that are subject to holding periods. The restrictions remain in force beyond the Executive Director's employment. See page 195 for further details of the shareholding guidelines. Directors' share interests The interests, in shares of the Company or calculated equivalents, of the Directors in office during 2025, including any interests of their connected persons, are set out in the table below. Directors' share and scheme interests (audited) Ordinary shares held at January 1, 2025 Ordinary shares held at December 31, 2025 Unvested and subject to performance conditions [A] Shareholding guideline as % of salary [B] Current shareholding as % of salary [C] Executive Directors Wael Sawan 266,533 378,519 550,431 700% 676% Sinead Gorman 105,589 218,416 327,272 500% 590% Non-executive Directors Dick Boer 10,000 10,000 Neil Carson OBE 16,000 16,000 Ann Godbehere 10,000 [D] 10,000 [D] Jane H. Lute 7,332 [D] 7,332 [D] Catherine Hughes 55,984 [E] 55,984 [E] Sir Andrew Mackenzie 37,175 37,175 Sir Charles Roxburgh 5,000 5,000 Bram Schot — — Leena Srivastava — — Cyrus Taraporevala 10,866 [D] [F] 10,000 [D] [A] Includes unvested share awards and notional dividend shares accrued at December 31, 2025. Interests are shown on the basis of the original awards, which can vest at between 0% and 200% based on performance. Dividend shares accumulate each year on an assumed notional award. Such dividend shares are disclosed and recorded on the basis of the number of shares conditionally awarded but, when an award vests, dividend shares will be awarded only in relation to vested shares as if the vested shares were held from the award date. [B] As at December 31, 2025. Increased guidelines are applicable from the date of the 2026 AGM, subject to shareholder approval of the revised Remuneration Policy. [C] Calculated using the £27.40 per share closing price on December 31, 2025, the last market day of 2025. [D] Held in American Depositary Shares (ADS). Each ADS represents two ordinary shares. [E] Held as 50,984 ordinary shares and 2,500 ADS. [F] Revised from 10,000 (as at December 31, 2024, in the 2024 Directors' Remuneration Report). 186 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued At December 31, 2025, the Directors and Senior Management (pages 140-145 and 146-147) of the Company beneficially owned, individually and in aggregate (including shares under option), less than 1% of Company shares. These shareholdings are not considered sufficient to affect the independence of the Directors. The changes to Directors' shareholdings as at March 4, 2026, are as follows: ￮ Wael Sawan's share interest increased by 180,577 ordinary shares after the delivery of the 2025 annual bonus shares and the vesting of the 2023 share award; and ￮ Sinead Gorman's share interest increased by 108,959 ordinary shares after the delivery of the 2025 annual bonus shares and the vesting of the 2023 share award. Effective as of January 1, 2026, Holly Keller Koeppel and Clare Scherrer have been appointed as Non-executive Directors. As at March 4, 2026, Holly Keller Koeppel does not hold any ordinary shares or ADS, and Clare Scherrer holds 5,000 ADS. Dilution In any 10-year period, no more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company may be issued or issuable under executive (discretionary) share plans adopted by the Company, or 10% when aggregated with awards under any other employee share plan operated by the Company. To date, no shareholder dilution has resulted from these plans, although it is permitted under the rules of the plans, subject to these limits. Payments for loss of office (audited) There were no payments for loss of office to Executive Directors in 2025. Payments to past Directors (audited) In respect of 2025, former CEO Ben van Beurden received taxable benefits of £7,443 in relation to tax support services. Former CFO Jessica Uhl received taxable benefits of £14,373, the majority of which related to tax gross-up costs. Payments below £5,000 are not reported as they are considered de minimis. TSR performance and CEO pay Performance graph The graph below compares the TSR performance of Shell plc over the past 10 financial years with that of the FTSE 100 index. The Board regards this index as the most appropriate broad market equity index for comparison. CEO pay outcomes The table below the graphs sets out (i) the single figure of total remuneration, (ii) the annual bonus outcome and (iii) the share award vesting outcome for the CEO for the past 10 years. Historical TSR performance Value of hypothetical £100 holding Year 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 CEO Ben van Beurden Wael Sawan Single figure of total remuneration (£ thousand) [B] 7,046 7,811 17,817 8,746 5,197 6,344 9,698 7,940 8,615 13,756 Annual bonus (% of maximum opportunity) 66% 81% 79% 21% — 64% 73% 78% 81% 71% Share award vesting (% of maximum opportunity) 42% 35% 95% 74% 45% 25% 41% 47% 68% 75% [A] Data shown are for the performance of RDS B shares prior to the assimilation of Shell's shares into a single line of ordinary shares on January 29, 2022. [B] Prior to 2022, the CEO's remuneration was denominated in EUR. Each year's single figure of total remuneration has been converted to GBP using the 12-month average exchange rates for the year. 187 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued Percentage change in remuneration of the Directors and employees The table below compares the remuneration of the Executive and Non-executive Directors of Shell plc with an employee comparator group consisting of local employees in the UK, the USA and the Netherlands. The local employee population of these countries is considered a suitable employee comparator group because: these are countries with a significant Shell employee base, a large proportion of senior managers come from these countries, and the REMCO considers remuneration levels in these countries when setting base salaries for Executive Directors. For the purposes of comparison, the change in employee remuneration is calculated by reference to the change in salary scale, benefits and annual bonus for a notional employee in each of the base countries, not by reference to the actual change in pay for a group of employees. Taxable benefits are those that align with the definition of taxable benefits applying in the respective country. In line with the "Single figure of total remuneration for Executive Directors" table on page 178, the annual bonus is included in the year in which it was earned (rather than paid). Percentage change in remuneration of Directors and employees [A] Salary/fees (% change) Benefits (% change) Annual bonus (% change) 2024– 25 2023– 24 2022– 23 2021– 22 2020– 21 2024– 25 2023– 24 2022– 23 2021– 22 2020– 21 2024– 25 2023– 24 2022– 23 2021– 22 2020– 21 Employees [B] 3.7% 3.7% 5.7% 2.4% 0.6% 13.8% 13.7% (10.2%) (8.4%) — (8.4%) 7.5% 14.3% (0.4%) — Executive Directors Wael Sawan 5.5% 3.9% — — — 72.5% (88.2%) — — — (6.9%) 7.9% — — — Sinead Gorman [C] 5.5% 3.9% 37.0% — — 7.4% (83.5%) (39.7%) — — (6.7%) 12.2% 45.8% — — Non-executive Directors [D] Dick Boer — 14.7% 25.4% 6.3% 70.4% 77.9% (58.0%) 389.8% — — Neil Carson OBE (14.6%) 3.5% — 3.6% 4.3% (40.2%) (19.4%) 593.0% — — Ann Godbehere — 1.1% — 0.8% 2.9% 21.1% (46.8%) 829.4% 1,286.7% — Jane H. Lute — 1.1% 6.7% 80.4% — (62.1%) 67.0% 155.0% 1,893.8% — Catherine Hughes (2.0%) 3.0% 4.6% 14.1% 2.8% (9.5%) (37.3%) 435.0% 868.8% — Sir Andrew Mackenzie — 8.3% — 57.0% 1,473.0% 65.1% (30.2%) (57.5%) (69.3%) — Sir Charles Roxburgh (9.7%) 31.2% — — — (68.8%) 5,453.1% — — — Bram Schot — — 4.1% 10.1% 300.0% (16.5%) (32.4%) 702.6% — — Leena Srivastava (2.6%) 29.0% — — — 2.4% — — — — Cyrus Taraporevala 14.9% 25.1% — — — (36.7%) 3,139.1% — — — [A] Where the value for the preceding year was zero or the individual was not in post and therefore no comparison data are available, "–" is recorded. [B] Relates to change in pay for local employees in the UK, the USA and the Netherlands. [C] Sinead Gorman was appointed as CFO effective April 1, 2022. The changes in remuneration shown for 2022–2023 are based on the period April 1, 2022, to December 31, 2022, for 2022, and a full year for 2023. [D] Non-executive Directors do not receive any short-term incentives. The increases shown reflect the individual's appointment to the Board part-way through the prior year, or additional fees payable for joining Board committees. Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and share buybacks, and remuneration paid to or receivable by employees for the last five years, together with annual percentage changes. Year Dividends and share buybacks [A] Spend on pay (all employees) [B] $ billion Annual change $ billion Annual change 2025 22.4 (1)% 14.1 (3)% 2024 22.6 (2)% 14.6 —% [A] Dividends paid and repurchases of shares as reported in the "Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity". [B] Employee costs, excluding redundancy costs, as reported in Note 33 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements". From 2025, remuneration and social security contributions include expatriate-related costs allocated to host entities. Prior period comparatives have been revised to conform with the current year change. Spend on pay can be compared with the major costs associated with generating income by referring to the "Consolidated Statement of Income". Over the last five years, the average spend on pay was around 5% of the major costs of generating income. These costs are considered to be the sum of: purchases; production and manufacturing expenses; selling, distribution and administrative expenses; research and development; exploration; and depreciation, depletion and amortisation. External appointments Neither Wael Sawan nor Sinead Gorman held any external Non-executive Director positions during 2025. Statement of voting at AGMs Shell's 2025 AGM was held on May 20, 2025. The result of the poll in respect of the 2024 Annual Report on Remuneration was as follows: Approval of 2024 Annual Report on Remuneration Votes Number Percentage For 3,727,092,752 97.44% Against 97,810,597 2.56% Total cast 3,824,903,349 [A] 100.00% Withheld [B] 19,987,286 [A] Representing 64.13% of issued share capital. [B] A vote withheld is not a vote under UK law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against a resolution. 188 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued The 2023 Directors' Remuneration Policy was approved at the 2023 AGM. The result of the poll was as follows: Approval of 2023 Directors' Remuneration Policy Votes Number Percentage For 3,931,530,222 94.60% Against 224,454,202 5.40% Total cast 4,155,984,424 [A] 100.00% Withheld [B] 29,173,157 [A] Representing 60.97% of issued share capital. [B] A vote withheld is not a vote under UK law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against a resolution. CEO pay ratio Option [A] 25 th percentile pay ratio Median pay ratio 75 th percentile pay ratio 2025 A 129:1 91:1 56:1 Total pay and benefits: Salary: £106,835 £76,056 £151,893 £94,442 £245,920 £117,885 2024 A 83:1 61:1 40:1 Total pay and benefits: Salary: £103,390 £54,327 £141,334 £88,049 £216,048 £104,877 2023 A 80:1 58:1 39:1 Total pay and benefits: Salary: £99,599 £70,000 £136,066 £76,444 £205,115 £102,634 2022 A 134:1 80:1 50:1 Total pay and benefits: Salary: £72,632 £45,904 £121,847 £56,302 £192,995 £96,790 2021 A 97:1 57:1 37:1 Total pay and benefits: Salary: £65,123 £43,550 £111,912 £68,238 £170,289 £101,000 2020 A 93:1 57:1 38:1 Total pay and benefits: Salary: £55,584 £49,117 £90,972 £75,365 £136,007 £118,291 2019 A 147:1 87:1 54:1 Total pay and benefits: Salary: £59,419 £40,417 £100,755 £56,721 £161,717 £79,991 2018 A 202:1 143:1 92:1 Total pay and benefits: Salary: £88,112 £53,528 £124,459 £80,407 £193,027 £96,074 [A] Shell has chosen to use option A (as defined in UK reporting regulations) to calculate the CEO pay ratio in accordance with guidance from the UK government that this is the preferred approach and the most statistically accurate method for identifying the ratios. Under option A, a comparable single figure for all UK employees has been calculated in order to identify the employees whose pay and benefits are at the 25 th , 50 th (median) and 75 th percentiles for comparison with the CEO. Employee pay has been calculated based on the total pay and benefits paid in respect of the year for all employees who were employed on the last day of the year. For part-time workers and joiners in the year, pay and benefits have been annualised based on the proportion of their working time in the UK during the year. This is calculated with an approach consistent with the methodology for determining annual bonuses. The REMCO believes that this provides a fair and reasonable calculation of the pay ratios for Shell employees in the UK. The ratio of the CEO's pay to the median UK employee is 91. The ratio at median for 2025 is higher than for 2024, reflecting that the 2025 CEO single figure includes the vesting of Wael Sawan's first CEO share award. The REMCO believes the CEO pay ratio for 2025 is consistent with Shell's philosophy of pay for performance. Directors' employment arrangements and letters of appointment Executive Directors have service contracts and are employed for an indefinite period. Non-executive Directors, including the Chair, have letters of appointment. Details of Executive Directors' employment arrangements can be found in the Policy on page 198. Further details of Non-executive Directors' terms of appointment can be found in the "Other regulatory and statutory information" on page 203 and the "Governance framework" report on page 149. Compensation of Directors and Senior Management During the year ended December 31, 2025, Shell paid and/or accrued compensation totalling $59 million (2024: $46 million) to Directors and Senior Management for services in all capacities while serving as a Director or member of Senior Management, including $2 million (2024: $2 million) accrued to provide pension, retirement and similar benefits. The amounts stated are those recognised in Shell's income attributable to Shell plc shareholders. See Note 34 to the "Consolidated Financial Statements". Personal loans or guarantees were not provided to Directors or Senior Management. Workforce engagement on remuneration matters Workforce engagement Our employees are fundamental to our success. Fostering a collaborative culture and reinforcing a learner mindset is central to delivering our strategy. The Board's view is that all Directors have a collective responsibility for workforce engagement, ensuring that employees' voices are heard on all business matters, including pay, and that the Company communicates effectively to employees on our remuneration policies and practices. The Board and management regularly engage with the workforce through a range of formal and informal channels. These include webcasts and all-employee messages from our CEO and other senior leaders; town halls and team meetings; virtual coffee connects; interviews with senior management; internal social platforms; and focused engagements. During interactive sessions, employees have the opportunity to ask about any topic, including pay. The Board's preference is to build on existing, long-standing channels of engagement for discussions around remuneration. During the year, management engaged with the workforce on what the 2025 performance metrics meant for each of us, giving employees the opportunity to ask any questions on this topic. We also conduct annual employee surveys; further information is on page 131. Wider employee context The REMCO receives annual updates on workforce remuneration topics, including employees' views on pay matters; CEO pay ratio; workforce reward philosophy and principles; alignment of Shell values and behaviours with remuneration practices; and general employee salary planning and variable pay outcomes. The REMCO is also periodically updated on wider employee matters, such as the UK gender and ethnicity pay gap analyses. In this way, the REMCO is able to satisfy itself that reward across Shell is aligned to our strategy, culture and long-term sustainable success. Shell adheres to its fair pay principles in all remuneration-related matters. Pay in Shell is market-competitive, free from bias and provides security to our employees. Shell sets clear performance expectations, gives employees the opportunity to share in Shell's success through variable pay schemes and is transparent and clear in its communication of remuneration. For more information, visit the "Careers" section of shell.com. 189 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued How executive remuneration aligns with wider Company pay policy Executive remuneration structures in Shell are strongly aligned with the structures for the broader workforce, as set out in the table below. Element Comparison of Executive Director and wider workforce arrangements Salary The Executive Directors' salaries are reviewed with reference to the factors set out in the Policy, against defined comparator groups. The market-competitiveness of wider workforce salaries is assessed at a base country level. Pension and benefits The Executive Directors' pension benefits are aligned with those offered to employees who joined Shell from 2013 onwards in the UK. Shell does not operate separate executive pension arrangements. All Group employees participate in the relevant pension plan for their base country based on their date of joining. The Executive Directors are eligible to receive the same benefits available to the broader workforce. Annual bonus The Group scorecard applicable to Group employees is identical to that applicable to Executive Directors in terms of performance measures, weightings and targets. For the wider workforce, an additional multiplier applies based on individual performance during the year. No individual multiplier applies to Executive Directors, and further, up to 50% of the bonus is paid in shares, and the bonus is subject to malus and clawback provisions. Long-term incentives In 2026, Executive Directors and around 100 senior executives received PSAs on the same terms. Executive Directors' awards are subject to a three-year holding period. Around 9,000 employees received PSAs and/or Restricted Share Awards, with the split based on seniority. Further information is on page 132. Shareholding guidelines The Executive Directors have the highest shareholding guidelines in the Company. These guidelines continue post termination for a period of two years. Shareholding guidelines extend into the organisation to senior manager level. Employees are required to achieve their individual guideline within a specified timeframe, as is the case for Executive Directors. Statement of planned implementation of proposed Policy in 2026 A summary of how the proposed Policy will be applied to Directors' remuneration for 2026 is set out below. Executive Directors Peer group The pay benchmarking peer group will comprise major global companies in systemically important sectors going through multi-product, multi-decadal transition. The REMCO retains the right to alter the peer group as it sees fit to ensure it remains an appropriate and relevant benchmark. The REMCO uses benchmark data from these companies only as a guide to the competitiveness of the remuneration packages. The REMCO does not seek to position remuneration at any defined point against the peer data. Global peer group AstraZeneca ExxonMobil Pfizer BMW GE Aerospace Roche Boeing IBM Siemens bp Intel Stellantis Chevron Mercedes-Benz TotalEnergies Cisco Systems Novartis Volkswagen Salaries Effective January 1, 2026, Wael Sawan and Sinead Gorman received a salary increase of 4.0%, and their salaries for 2026 are £1,596,000 and £1,055,000, respectively. In reviewing the Executive Directors' salaries, the REMCO carefully considered the external environment, and the increases provided to the Shell workforce in the key markets of the UK (4.1%), the USA (3.0%) and the Netherlands (3.0%). The Executive Directors' increases for 2026 were positioned just below other UK employees. The REMCO also took note of the proposed PSA quantum changes, and recognised the multiplier effect on total remuneration. Annual bonus There will be no change to the overall annual bonus scorecard architecture, structure or weightings for 2026. Given the evolution of the business, and the shift in focus to value over volume, the supporting customer decarbonisation metric will move from assessing the number of electric vehicle charge points to electric vehicle gross margin growth. Some shareholders have commented on the use of LNG in the energy transition performance measure in the bonus. The REMCO reviewed this matter during the year. LNG has a critical role to play in Shell's energy transition strategy by producing less carbon emissions than coal when used to generate electricity, helping to maintain grid stability as the share of renewable energy grows, increasingly powering transport and shipping, and providing energy security in the coming decades. Therefore, the REMCO believes it is important that LNG is appropriately captured in the scorecard. 190 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2026 annual bonus measures, weightings and link to strategy [A] Equity liquefaction. Scorecard targets will be disclosed retrospectively when they are no longer deemed to be commercially sensitive. Any bonus is paid in a mix of cash and net-of-tax shares, which are subject to a three-year holding period (which remains in force post tenure), with the proportions based on the individual's shareholding against their guideline level. Performance Share Awards As outlined in the REMCO Chair's letter, subject to shareholder approval of the proposed Policy, the 2026 PSAs will have a total face value of 450% and 300% of salary for the CEO and CFO, respectively, excluding potential share price appreciation and dividends. The 2026 PSAs to Executive Directors are based on salaries as at December 31 of the prior year, consistent with the rest of the organisation. The REMCO reviewed the award levels in the context of share price movement over the year prior to award and determined that the risk of windfall gain was limited, and therefore no adjustment was made. Performance is measured over the three-year period January 1, 2026, to December 31, 2028. The performance measures, weightings and link to strategy for the 2026 award are set out on this page. For the intrinsic value creation performance condition, the performance target range will be 9% p.a. to 12% p.a. with a target of 10% p.a. 2026 PSA performance conditions, weightings and link to strategy Any vested shares are subject to a three-year holding period, which remains in force post tenure. Performance framework for the 2026 PSA Shell's journey in the energy transition performance condition The REMCO's determination of the vesting outcome will be based on its holistic assessment of progress towards reducing emissions from our operations and supporting our customers to reduce their emissions. This will be based on our climate-related targets for our own operations as follows: ￮ halving Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030 under operational control on a net basis (2016 baseline); and ￮ maintaining methane emissions intensity below 0.2% and achieving near-zero methane emissions intensity by 2030. 191 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued The REMCO will also take account of progress in developments that support the energy transition to 2030 and beyond, such as the development of our Power business (including renewables), lower carbon intensity LNG production using, for example CCS and renewable power, and low-carbon solutions such as biofuels, electric vehicle charging, hydrogen and CCS. The REMCO will take into account progress towards achieving a 15–20% reduction in NCI by 2030 (2016 baseline), a 15–20% reduction in customer emissions from the use of our oil products by 2030 (2021 baseline) [A], as well as Shell's wider performance in accelerating the energy transition, e.g. demonstrating leadership and advocacy in standard setting, alongside any other factors that the REMCO considers relevant. [A] This ambition was set in March 2024. Customer emissions from the use of our oil products (Scope 3, Category 11) were 517 million tonnes CO 2 e in 2023 and 569 million tonnes CO 2 e in 2021. The REMCO will provide a full disclosure of all material factors, both quantitative and qualitative, that it took into account in reaching the vesting decision. Malus and clawback The annual bonus is subject to malus provisions before it is delivered, and to clawback thereafter for a period of three years. The PSA is subject to malus provisions before vesting, and to clawback provisions thereafter for a period of three years. Shell's chosen malus and clawback periods align with the performance and holding periods, respectively, for simplicity. A description of the circumstances under which malus and clawback might be applied to a variable pay award is set out in the Policy. Pension and other benefits There are no changes to pension and other benefits for 2026. Non-executive Directors' fees 2026 Non-executive Directors' fees £ Other fees Chair of the Board [A] 950,000 Non-executive Directors receive an additional fee of £10,000 for any Board meeting involving intercontinental travel. Non-executive Director [B] 135,000 Senior Independent Director 49,000 Audit and Risk Committee Chair [C] 65,000 Member 25,000 Sustainability Committee Chair [C] 22,000 Member 11,000 Nomination and Succession Committee Chair [C] 22,000 Member 11,000 Remuneration Committee Chair [C] 42,000 Member 15,000 [A] The Chair of the Board does not receive any additional fee for chairing the Nomination and Succession Committee or the Sustainability Committee (effective from the 2026 AGM), or attending any other Board Committee meeting. [B] There are additional fees for the Senior Independent Director, a Board Committee chair or a Board Committee member, and for Board meetings involving intercontinental travel. [C] The Chair of a Committee does not receive an additional fee for membership of that Committee. The REMCO reviews the Chair's fee, and the Board reviews Non-executive Directors' fees periodically to ensure that they are aligned with those of other major listed companies. During these reviews, fees in the top 30 companies within the FTSE 100 index and relevant listed peer companies are considered. For 2026, there are increases to the Chair's fee (from £850,000), the NED base fee (from £120,000), the Audit and Risk Committee Chair fee (from £55,000), and the intercontinental travel fee (from £4,000 per meeting). The annualised increase to the Chair's fee over the past five years has been around 4%. There is a reduction to the fees for the Sustainability Committee Chair and members (from £31,000 and £15,000, respectively). These fee changes take into account market fee levels and Committee responsibilities. All other fees remain unchanged. 192 Shell Form 20-F 2025 Governance Directors' Remuneration Policy The Directors' Remuneration Policy sets out: ￮ a summary of proposed changes to the Directors' Remuneration Policy, page 193; ￮ Executive Directors' Remuneration Policy, page 194; and ￮ Non-executive Directors' Remuneration Policy, page 199. This section describes the Directors' Remuneration Policy (the Policy), which, subject to shareholder approval at the 2026 Annual General Meeting (AGM), will come into effect at the conclusion of the AGM on May 19, 2026, and will be effective until the 2029 AGM, unless a revised Policy is proposed by the Company and approved by shareholders in the meantime. The principles underpinning the REMCO's approach to executive remuneration are the foundation for everything we do and are: ￮ Strategic alignment: Executive Directors' pay should promote Shell's long-term, sustainable success, and be tied to stretching targets that reflect Shell's ambitious strategic goals. ￮ Pay for performance: the majority of the Executive Directors' compensation (excluding benefits and pensions) should be variable and linked to performance. ￮ Competitiveness: pay levels should be benchmarked internally, and externally against comparable companies in globally systemically important sectors going through multi-decadal transition. ￮ Shareholder alignment: Executive Directors should hold Shell shares to align their interests with those of shareholders. ￮ Consistency: the remuneration structure for Executive Directors should generally be consistent with that for Shell's Senior Management, to foster a unified culture and a common approach to sharing in success. ￮ Risk assessment: pay decisions must reflect Shell's General Business Principles and Code of Conduct and be risk-assessed to safeguard shareholders' long-term interests and avoid inappropriate actions. The Executive Directors' remuneration structure is made up of a fixed element of base pay and two variable elements: the annual bonus and the Performance Share Award (PSA). Variable pay outcomes are conditional on the achievement of annual financial and non-financial targets in the short term, and the delivery of strategic goals and financial and share price outperformance over the longer term. The award of shares under the bonus and PSA, along with significant shareholding requirements, is intended to ensure executives have a sizeable shareholding in the Company and supports shareholder alignment. During the past two years, the REMCO reviewed the Policy to ensure that it continued to support Shell's strategy. The Board has outlined a vision to unlock the Company's potential for shareholders by redefining performance, repositioning the portfolio and resetting culture. We will drive performance by unlocking additional value from capital and cost discipline. Our portfolio must transform to secure growth in areas of competitive advantage, while navigating significant uncertainty around the pace and shape of the energy transition. Building resilience, optionality and longevity for the decades to come is essential, alongside continuing to reset aspects of the organisation into a strong performance culture across Shell. Transforming this Company is a leadership ask of the highest order. The REMCO has carefully considered the nature of the leadership required to lead Shell for the performance