{"sectionMethod":"item_span_last","plainTextLength":330755,"pipelineVersion":5,"contentSuspect":false}
ITEM 1. BUSINESS OUR BUSINESSES Overview The terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “its,” “UnitedHealth Group,” or the “Company” used in this report refer to UnitedHealth Group Incorporated and its subsidiaries. UnitedHealth Group Incorporated is a health care and well-being company with a mission to help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone. Our two distinct, yet complementary businesses — Optum and UnitedHealthcare — are working to help build a modern, high-performing health system through improved access, affordability, outcomes and experiences for the individuals and organizations we are privileged to serve. The ability to analyze complex data and apply deep health care expertise and insights allows us to serve patients, consumers, care providers, businesses, communities and governments with more innovative products and complete, end-to-end offerings for many of the biggest challenges facing health care today. Optum seeks to create a higher-performing, value-oriented and more connected approach to health care. Bringing together clinical expertise, technology and data to make care simpler, more effective and more affordable, we seek to advance whole-person health, creating a seamless consumer experience and supporting clinicians with insights to deliver personalized, evidence-based care. Optum serves the broad health care marketplace, including patients and consumers, payers, care providers, employers, governments and life sciences companies, through its Optum Health, Optum Insight and Optum Rx businesses. These businesses improve overall health system performance by optimizing health care quality and delivery, reducing costs and improving patient, consumer and provider experience, leveraging distinctive capabilities in data and analytics, pharmacy care services, health care operations, population health and health financial services. UnitedHealthcare offers a full range of health benefits, designed to simplify the health care experience and make it more affordable for consumers to access high-quality care. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual serves consumers and employers, ranging from individuals and sole proprietorships to large, multi-site and national employers and public sector employers. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement delivers health and well-being benefits to seniors and other Medicare eligible consumers. UnitedHealthcare Community & State serves consumers who are economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved and those without the benefit of employer sponsored health benefits coverage. We have four reportable segments: • Optum Health; • Optum Insight; • Optum Rx; and • UnitedHealthcare, which includes UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State. 2026 Business Realignment On January 1, 2026, we realigned certain of our businesses to respond to changes in the markets we serve and the opportunities that are emerging as the health system evolves. Optum Financial, including Optum Bank, which was historically included in Optum Health, will now be included in Optum Insight. Our reportable segments will remain unchanged, with prior period segment financial information being recast to conform to the 2026 presentation, beginning with our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2026 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 1 Table of Contents Optum Optum is an information and technology-enabled health services business serving the broad health care marketplace, including: • Those who need care: patients who need the right care, information, resources, products and engagement to improve their health, achieve their health goals and receive an improved patient experience that is personalized, comprehensive and delivered in all care settings, including in-home and virtually. • Those who provide care: physicians, hospitals, pharmacies and others seeking to improve the health system and reduce the administrative burden, allowing for providers to focus time on patients leading to the best possible patient care and experiences while achieving better health outcomes at lower costs. Improved health outcomes are achieved by utilizing our clinical expertise, data and analytics to better understand, treat and prevent consumers’ health conditions and ensure they receive the best evidence-based care. • Those who pay for care: consumers; employers; health plans; and state, federal and municipal agencies devoted to ensuring the people they sponsor receive high-quality care, administered and delivered efficiently and effectively, all while driving health equity so that every individual, family and community has access to the care they need. • Those who innovate for care: global life sciences organizations dedicated to developing more effective approaches to care, enabling technologies and medicines to improve care delivery and health outcomes. Optum operates three business segments which combine distinctive capabilities in value-based care, population health, health care operations, data and analytics and pharmacy care services: • Optum Health delivers patient-centered care, care management, wellness and consumer engagement, and health financial services; • Optum Insight offers data, analytics, research, consulting, technology and managed services solutions; and • Optum Rx provides diversified pharmacy care services. Optum Health Optum Health provides comprehensive and patient-centered care, addressing the physical, mental, social, and financial well-being of 95 million consumers and serves more than 100 health payer partners. We engage people in the most appropriate care settings, including clinical sites, in-home and virtual. Optum Health delivers primary, specialty and surgical care; helps patients and providers navigate and address complex, chronic and behavioral health needs; offers post-acute care planning services; and serves consumers and care providers through advanced, on-demand digital health technologies, such as telehealth and remote patient monitoring, and innovative health care financial services. Optum Health works directly with patients, consumers, care delivery systems, providers, employers, payers, and public-sector entities to provide high quality, accessible and equitable care with improved health outcomes and reduced total cost of care. Optum Health enables care providers to transition from traditional fee-for-service payment models to performance-based delivery and payment models designed to improve patient health outcomes and experience through value-based care. Optum Health offerings include fully accountable value-based arrangements, where Optum Health assumes responsibility for health care costs in exchange for a monthly premium. Offerings also include administrative fee arrangements, where Optum Health manages or administers products and services in exchange for a monthly fee, and fee-for-service arrangements, where Optum Health delivers health-related products and medical services for patients at a contracted fee. Optum Financial, including Optum Bank, serves consumers through nearly 26 million consumer accounts with more than $27 billion in assets under management as of December 31, 2025. Organizations across the health system rely on Optum Financial to manage and improve payment flows through its highly automated, scalable, end-to-end digital payment and financing systems and integrated card solutions. For financial services offerings, Optum Financial charges fees and earns investment and interest income on managed funds and loans. Optum Health sells its products primarily through its direct sales force, strategic collaborations and external producers in three key areas: employers, including large, mid-sized and small employers; payers including health plans, third-party administrators (TPAs), underwriter/stop-loss carriers and individual product intermediaries; and public entities, including the U.S. Departments of Health and Human Services (HHS), Veterans Affairs, Defense, and other federal, state and local health care agencies. 2 Table of Contents Optum Insight Optum Insight connects the health care system with services, analytics and platforms that make clinical, administrative and financial processes simpler and more efficient for all participants in the health care system. Hospital systems, physicians, health plans, public entities, life sciences companies and other organizations comprising the health care industry depend on Optum Insight to help them improve performance and reduce costs through administrative efficiency and payment simplification, advance care quality through evidence-based standards built directly into clinical workflows, meet compliance mandates and modernize their core operating systems to meet the changing needs of the health system. Health Systems. Serves hospitals, physicians and other care providers to improve operating performance, better coordinate care and reduce administrative costs through technology and services to improve population health management, patient engagement, revenue cycle management and strategic growth plans. Health Plans. Serves health plans by improving financial performance and enhancing outcomes through proactive analytics, a comprehensive payment integrity portfolio and technology-enabled and staff-supported risk and quality services. Optum Insight helps health plans navigate a dynamic environment defined by shifts in employer vs. public-sector coverage, the demand for affordable benefit plans and the need to leverage new technology to reduce complexity. State Governments. Provides advanced technology and analytics services to modernize the administration of critical safety net programs, such as Medicaid, while improving cost predictability. Life Sciences Companies. Combines data and analytics expertise with comprehensive technologies and health care knowledge to help life sciences companies, including those in pharmaceuticals and medical technology, adopt a more comprehensive approach to advancing therapeutic discoveries and improving clinical outcomes. Many of Optum Insight’s software and information products and professional services are delivered over extended periods, often several years. Optum Insight maintains an order backlog to track unearned revenues under these long-term arrangements. The backlog consists of estimated revenue from signed contracts, other legally binding agreements and anticipated contract renewals based on historical experience with Optum Insight’s customers. Optum Insight’s aggregate backlog as of December 31, 2025 was approximately $31.1 billion, of which $18.3 billion is expected to be realized within the next 12 months. The aggregate backlog includes $12.9 billion related to affiliated agreements. Optum Insight’s aggregate backlog as of December 31, 2024, was $32.8 billion, including $12.5 billion related to affiliated agreements. Optum Insight’s products and services are sold primarily through a direct sales force. Optum Insight’s products are also supported and distributed through an array of alliances and business partnerships with other technology vendors, who integrate and interface Optum Insight’s products with their applications. Optum Rx Optum Rx provides a full spectrum of pharmacy care services through its network of approximately 64,000 retail pharmacies, through home delivery, specialty and community health pharmacies, the provision of in-home and community-based infusion services and through rare disease and gene therapy support services. It also offers direct-to-consumer solutions. Optum Rx manages a broad range of prescription drug spend, including widely available retail drugs as well as limited and ultra-limited distribution drugs in oncology, human immunodeficiency virus, pain management and ophthalmology. Optum Rx serves the growing pharmacy needs of people with behavioral health and substance use disorders. In 2025, Optum Rx managed $188 billion in pharmaceutical spending, including nearly $87 billion in specialty pharmaceutical spending. Optum Rx serves health benefits providers, large national employer plans, unions and trusts, purchasing coalitions and public-sector entities. Optum Rx sells its services through direct sales, health insurance brokers and other health care consultants. Optum Rx offers multiple clinical programs, digital tools and services to help clients manage overall pharmacy and health care costs in a clinically appropriate manner which are designed to deliver improved consumer experiences, better health outcomes and a lower total cost of care. Optum Rx provides various utilization management, medication management, quality assurance, adherence and counseling programs to complement each client’s plan design and clinical strategies. Optum Rx is accelerating the integration of medical, pharmacy and behavioral care and treating the whole patient by embedding our pharmacists as key members of the patient care team. 3 Table of Contents UnitedHealthcare Through its health benefits offerings, UnitedHealthcare is enabling better health, creating a better health care experience for its customers and helping to control rising health care costs. UnitedHealthcare’s market position is built on: • strong local-market relationships; • the breadth of product offerings, based upon extensive expertise in distinct market segments in health care; • service and advanced technology, including digital consumer engagement; • competitive medical and operating cost positions; • effective clinical engagement; and • innovation for customers and consumers. UnitedHealthcare arranges for discounted access to care through its extensive networks and uses Optum’s capabilities to help coordinate and provide patient care, improve affordability of medical care, analyze cost trends, manage pharmacy care services, work with care providers more effectively and create a simpler and more satisfying consumer and physician experience. UnitedHealthcare is subject to extensive government regulation. See further discussion of our regulatory environment below under “Government Regulation” and in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual Domestically, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers a comprehensive array of consumer-oriented health benefit plans and services for large national employers, public sector employers, mid-sized employers, small businesses, and individuals. As of December 31, 2025, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual provides access to medical services for 29.7 million people. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual offers risk-based products under which it assumes responsibility for medical and administrative costs in exchange for a monthly premium, typically a fixed rate per individual served for a one-year period. For customers that elect to self-fund the health care costs and retain the financial risk of medical benefits for their employees and dependents, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual provides administrative and management services. These services include coordination of medical and related services, transaction processing and access to a contracted network of physicians, hospitals and other health care providers, including providers of dental and vision services. The business focuses on delivering customized benefit solutions and clinical programs designed to help employers and individuals manage costs while maintaining quality coverage and supporting health and well-being, with the shared goal of improving outcomes for patients and the health system. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual distributes its products through a variety of channels, depending on the specific product. These channels include consultants or direct sales, brokers and agents, wholesale agents or agencies that contract with health insurance carriers to distribute individual or group benefits, professional employer organizations and associations, and both multi-carrier and proprietary private exchange marketplaces. UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual provides employer-sponsored health benefits, as well as individual and family plans through portfolio of products which include consumer engagement products, such as high-deductible consumer driven benefit plans and a variety of innovative consumer centric products; traditional products; clinical and pharmacy products; and specialty benefits, such as vision, dental, accident protection, critical illness, disability and hospital indemnity offerings. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health and well-being services to seniors and other Medicare eligible consumers, addressing their unique needs. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement has distinct benefit designs, pricing, underwriting, clinical program management and marketing capabilities dedicated to health products and services in this market. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement offers a selection of products allowing people choice in obtaining the health coverage and services they need as their circumstances change. These offerings include care management and health system navigator services, clinical management programs, nurse health line services, 24-hour access to health care information, access to discounted health services from a network of care providers and administrative services. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement has extensive distribution capabilities and experience, including direct marketing to consumers on behalf of its key clients, a membership organization, and state and U.S. government agencies. Products are also offered through agents, employer groups and digital channels. 4 Table of Contents Major product categories include: Medicare Advantage. Provides health care coverage for seniors and other eligible Medicare beneficiaries through the Medicare Advantage program administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), including Medicare Advantage HMO plans, Preferred Provider Organization (PPO) plans, Point-of-Service plans, Private-Fee-for-Service plans and Special Needs Plans (SNPs). Under the Medicare Advantage program, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement provides health benefits coverage in exchange for a fixed monthly premium per member from CMS plus, in some cases, monthly consumer premiums. Premium amounts received from CMS vary based on the geographic areas in which individuals reside; demographic factors such as age, gender and institutionalized status; and the health status of the individual. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement served 8.4 million people through its Medicare Advantage products as of December 31, 2025. We have continued to enhance our offerings, focusing on more digital and physical care resources in the home, expanding our concierge navigation services and enabling the home as a safe and effective setting for care. For example, through our HouseCalls program, nurse practitioners performed 3.1 million clinical preventive home care visits in 2025 to address unmet care opportunities and close gaps in care. Medicare Part D. Provides Medicare Part D benefits to beneficiaries through its Medicare Advantage and stand-alone Medicare Part D plans. The stand-alone Medicare Part D plans address a large spectrum of people’s needs and preferences for their prescription drug coverage, including low-cost prescription options. As of December 31, 2025, UnitedHealthcare enrolled 10.4 million people in the Medicare Part D programs, including 2.8 million individuals in stand-alone Medicare Part D plans, with the remainder in Medicare Advantage plans incorporating Medicare Part D coverage. Medicare Supplement. Provides a full range of supplemental products at diverse price points. These products cover various levels of coinsurance and deductible gaps to which seniors are exposed in the traditional Medicare program. UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement served 4.3 million seniors nationwide through various Medicare Supplement products as of December 31, 2025. Premium revenues from CMS represented 44% of UnitedHealth Group’s total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2025, most of which were generated by UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement. UnitedHealthcare Community & State UnitedHealthcare Community & State is dedicated to serving state programs caring for the economically disadvantaged, the medically underserved and those without the benefit of employer-funded health care coverage, typically in exchange for a monthly premium per member from the state program. UnitedHealthcare Community & State’s primary customers oversee Medicaid plans, including Temporary Assistance to Needy Families; Children’s Health Insurance Programs (CHIP); Dual SNPs (DSNPs); Long-Term Services and Supports (LTSS); Aged, Blind and Disabled; and other federal, state and community health care programs. As of December 31, 2025, UnitedHealthcare Community & State participated in programs in 32 states and the District of Columbia, and served nearly 7.4 million people; including 1.2 million people through Medicaid expansion programs in 19 states under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). States using managed care services for Medicaid beneficiaries select health plans by using a formal bid process or by awarding individual contracts. These health plans and care programs are designed to address the complex needs of the populations they serve, including the chronically ill, people with disabilities and people with a higher risk of medical, behavioral and social conditions. UnitedHealthcare Community & State administers benefits for the unique needs of children, pregnant women, adults, seniors and those who are institutionalized or are nursing home eligible. These individuals often live in medically underserved areas and are less likely to have a consistent relationship with the medical community or a care provider. They also often face significant social and economic challenges. GOVERNMENT REGULATION Our businesses are subject to comprehensive U.S. federal and state and international laws and regulations. We are regulated by government agencies, which generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and regulations. U.S. federal and state and international governments continue to consider and enact various legislative and regulatory proposals which could materially impact certain aspects of the health care system and our operations. New laws and regulations, or changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, including as a result of changes in the political environment, could adversely affect our businesses. See Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to our compliance with U.S. federal and state and international laws and regulations. 5 Table of Contents U.S. Federal Laws and Regulation When we contract with the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. CMS regulates our UnitedHealthcare businesses and certain aspects of our Optum businesses. Payments by CMS to our businesses are subject to regulations, including those governing fee-for-service and the submission of information relating to the health status of enrollees for purposes of determining the amounts of certain payments to us. CMS also has the right to audit our performance to determine our compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care we provide to Medicare beneficiaries. Our commercial business is further subject to CMS audits related to medical loss ratios (MLRs) and risk adjustment data. UnitedHealthcare Community & State has Medicaid and CHIP contracts, which are subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services and other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations affecting Medicare and Medicaid compliance, and the regulatory environment with respect to these programs is complex. Our businesses are also subject to laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, anti-fraud and abuse, anti-kickbacks, false claims, prohibited referrals, inappropriate reduction or limitation of health care services, anti-money laundering and securities and antitrust compliance. Privacy, Security and Data Standards Regulation. Certain of our operations are subject to regulation under the administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), which apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. Federal regulations related to HIPAA contain minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets and for the privacy and security of protected health information. Our businesses must comply with the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), which regulates matters relating to privacy, security and data standards. HITECH imposes requirements on uses and disclosures of health information; includes contracting requirements for HIPAA business associate agreements; extends parts of HIPAA privacy and security provisions to business associates; adds federal data breach notification requirements for covered entities and business associates and reporting requirements to HHS and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and, in some cases, to the local media; strengthens enforcement and imposes higher financial penalties for HIPAA violations and, in certain cases, imposes criminal penalties for individuals, including employees. In the conduct of our business, depending on the circumstances, we may act as either a covered entity or a business associate. The use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data by our businesses are also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) or state statutes implementing GLBA. These federal laws and state statutes generally require insurers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures before the insurer shares such information with a third party, and generally prescribe safeguards for the protection of personal information. Neither the GLBA nor HIPAA privacy regulations preempt more stringent state laws and regulations, which may apply to us, as discussed below. Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information. ERISA. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how our services are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of laws and regulations subject to interpretation by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) as well as the federal courts. ERISA sets forth standards on how our business units may do business with employers who sponsor employee health benefit plans, particularly those that maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the DOL subject us to additional requirements for administration of benefits, claims payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA. State Laws and Regulation Health Care Regulation. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. All of the states in which our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations. The states require periodic financial reports and establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has adopted model regulations which require expanded governance practices and risk and solvency assessment reporting. Most states have adopted these or similar measures to expand the scope of regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies. We are required to maintain a risk management framework and file a confidential self-assessment report with state insurance regulators. We file reports annually with Connecticut, our lead regulator, and with New York, as required by the state’s regulation. Our health plans and insurance companies are regulated under state insurance holding company regulations. Such regulations generally require registration with applicable state departments of insurance and the filing of reports describing capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain affiliated transactions and general business operations. Most state insurance 6 Table of Contents holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval of acquisitions and material affiliated transfers of assets, as well as transactions between the regulated companies and their parent holding companies or affiliates. These laws and regulations may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding companies. Some of our business activity is subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including PPO, Managed Care Organization (MCO), utilization review (UR), behavioral health, TPA, pharmacy care services, durable medical equipment or care provider-related regulations and licensure requirements. These regulations differ from state to state and may contain network, contracting, product and rate, licensing and financial and reporting requirements. Health care-related laws and regulations set specific standards for delivery of services, mental health parity, appeals, grievances and payment of claims, adequacy of health care professional networks, fraud prevention, protection of consumer health information, pricing and underwriting practices and covered benefits and services. State health care anti-fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing for unnecessary medical services and improper marketing. Certain of our businesses are subject to state general agent, broker and sales distribution laws and regulations. UnitedHealthcare Community & State and certain of our Optum businesses are subject to regulation by state Medicaid agencies which oversee the provision of benefits to our Medicaid and CHIP beneficiaries and to our beneficiaries dually eligible for Medicare and Medicaid. We also contract with state governmental entities and are subject to state laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of state government contracts. State Privacy and Security Regulations. A number of states have adopted laws and regulations which may affect our privacy and security practices, such as state laws governing the use, disclosure and protection of social security numbers and protected health information or which are designed to implement GLBA or protect credit card account data. State and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting laws requiring businesses to meet minimum cyber-security standards and notify individuals of security breaches involving personal information. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. Different approaches to state privacy and insurance regulation and varying enforcement philosophies may materially and adversely affect our ability to standardize our products and services across state lines. See Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with state privacy and security regulations. Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting Laws. Certain of our businesses function as direct medical service providers and, as such, are subject to additional laws and regulations. Some states have corporate practice of medicine laws prohibiting specific types of entities from practicing medicine or employing physicians to practice medicine. Moreover, some states prohibit certain entities from engaging in fee-splitting practices, which involve sharing in the fees or revenues of a professional practice. These prohibitions may be statutory or regulatory, or may be imposed through judicial or regulatory interpretation. The laws, regulations and interpretations in certain states have been subject to limited judicial and regulatory interpretation and are subject to change. In addition, some states have begun to consider new laws to expand or change the scope of corporate practice of medicine laws. Any such changes could adversely impact how we structure transactions and contract with and support physicians in those states. Pharmacy and Pharmacy Benefits Management (PBM) Regulations Optum Rx’s businesses include home delivery, specialty and compounding pharmacies, as well as clinic-based pharmacies which must be licensed as pharmacies in the states in which they are located. Certain of our pharmacies must also register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and individual state controlled substance authorities to dispense controlled substances. In addition to adhering to the laws and regulations in the states where our pharmacies are located, we also are required to comply with laws and regulations in some non-resident states where we deliver pharmaceuticals, including those requiring us to register with the board of pharmacy in the non-resident state. These non-resident states generally expect our pharmacies to follow the laws of the state in which the pharmacies are located, but some non-resident states also require us to comply with their laws if pharmaceuticals are delivered within those states. Additionally, certain of our pharmacies which participate in programs for Medicare and state Medicaid providers are required to comply with applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations. Other laws and regulations affecting our pharmacies include federal and state statutes and regulations governing the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. See Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to our pharmacy care services businesses. Federal and state legislation regulating PBM activities affects both our ability to limit access to a pharmacy provider network or remove network providers. Many states limit our ability to manage and establish maximum allowable costs for generic prescription drugs and regulate various pharmacy reimbursement measures. With respect to formulary services, a number of government entities, including CMS, HHS and state departments of insurance, regulate the administration of prescription drug benefits offered through federal or state exchanges. Many states also regulate the scope of prescription drug coverage, as well as the delivery channels to receive such prescriptions, for insurers, MCOs and Medicaid managed care plans. These regulations 7 Table of Contents could limit or preclude (i) certain plan designs, (ii) limited networks, (iii) use of particular care providers or distribution channels, (iv) copayment differentials among providers and (v) formulary tiering practices. Legislation seeking to regulate PBM activities introduced or enacted at the federal or state level could impact our business practices with others in the pharmacy supply chain, including pharmaceutical manufacturers and network providers. In addition, organizations like the NAIC periodically issue model regulations while credentialing organizations, like the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) and the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission (URAC), may establish standards impacting PBM pharmacy activities. Although these model regulations and standards do not have the force of law, they may influence states to adopt their recommendations and impact the services we deliver to our clients. Consumer Protection Laws Certain of our businesses participate in direct-to-consumer activities and are subject to regulations applicable to online communications and other general consumer protection laws and regulations such as the Federal Tort Claims Act, the Federal Postal Service Act and the FTC’s Telemarketing Sales Rule. Most states also have similar consumer protection laws. Certain laws, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, give the FTC, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and state attorneys general the ability to regulate, and bring enforcement actions relating to, telemarketing practices and certain automated outbound contacts such as phone calls, texts or emails. Under certain circumstances, these laws may provide consumers with a private right of action to enforce those laws. Violations of these laws could result in substantial statutory penalties and other sanctions. Banking Regulation Optum Bank is subject to supervision and regulation by the Utah State Department of Financial Institutions, which carries out annual examinations to ensure the bank is operating in accordance with state safety and soundness requirements and performs periodic examinations of the bank’s compliance with applicable state banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. Optum Bank is also subject to regulation by federal banking regulators, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which performs annual examinations to ensure the bank is operating in accordance with federal safety and soundness requirements, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which may perform periodic examinations to ensure the bank is in compliance with applicable consumer protection statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results or an enforcement action from these state or federal agencies, the bank could become subject to civil litigation, increased operational expenses and capital requirements, enhanced governmental oversight, monetary penalties and other sanctions. Non-U.S. Regulation Certain of our businesses operate internationally and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. These regulatory regimes vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In addition, our non-U.S. businesses and operations are subject to U.S. laws regulating the conduct and activities of U.S.-based businesses operating outside the United States, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. COMPETITION As a diversified health care company, we operate in highly competitive markets across the full expanse of health care benefits and services. Our competitors include organizations ranging from startups to highly sophisticated Fortune 50 global enterprises, for-profit and non-profit companies, and private and government-sponsored entities. New entrants to our markets and business combinations among our competitors and suppliers also contribute to a dynamic and competitive environment. We compete fundamentally on the quality and value we provide to those we serve, which can include elements such as product and service innovation; use of technology; consumer and provider engagement and satisfaction; and sales, marketing and pricing. See Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for additional discussion of our risks related to competition. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS We have obtained trademark registration for the UnitedHealth Group, Optum and UnitedHealthcare names and logos. We own registrations for certain of our other trademarks in the United States and abroad. We hold a portfolio of patents and have patent applications pending from time to time. We are not substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. Unless otherwise noted, trademarks appearing in this report are trademarks owned by us. We disclaim any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others. 8 Table of Contents HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 31, 2025, we had more than 390,000 employees, of whom nearly 165,000 were clinical professionals. Our employees are guided by our mission to help people live healthier lives and help make the health system work better for everyone. Our mission and cultural values of integrity, compassion, inclusion, relationships, innovation and performance align with our long-term business strategy to increase access to care, make care more affordable, enhance the care experience and improve health outcomes. Our mission and values attract individuals who are determined to make a difference – individuals whose talent, innovation, engagement and empowerment are critical in our ability to achieve our mission. We seek to maintain an inclusive environment where people of diverse talents, backgrounds, experiences and perspectives make us better. We promote an inclusive culture and a sense of belonging throughout our organization and operations, including in our talent acquisition and talent management practices; leadership development; careers; learning and skills; and systems and processes. We prioritize equal pay by objectively and regularly evaluating and reviewing our compensation practices by performance, experience, and other relevant measures. INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of March 2, 2026, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years: Name Age Position Stephen Hemsley 73 Chair and Chief Executive Officer Wayne DeVeydt 56 Chief Financial Officer Dr. Patrick Conway 51 Chief Executive Officer, Optum Erin McSweeney 61 Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer Timothy Noel 54 Chief Executive Officer, UnitedHealthcare Thomas Roos 53 Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Christopher Zaetta 54 Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary Our Board of Directors elects executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation, removal or disqualification. Stephen Hemsley has served as Chief Executive Officer and Chair of the Board of UnitedHealth Group since May 2025. Steve previously served as Non-Executive Chair of the Board from November 2019 to May 2025, Executive Chair of the Board from September 2017 to November 2019, Chief Executive Officer from November 2006 to August 2017, President from May 1999 to November 2014, and Chief Operating Officer from November 1998 to November 2006. He joined the Company in 1997 and has been a member of the Board of Directors since 2000. Wayne DeVeydt has served as Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group since September 2025. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Wayne was Managing Director of Bain Capital, a private investment firm, from March 2022 to August 2025. Wayne previously served as Chief Executive Officer, from January 2018 to January 2020, and Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, from January 2020 to August 2025, of Surgery Partners, an operator of surgical facilities and ancillary services, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Elevance Health (formerly known as Anthem), a health benefits and insurance provider, from 2007 to June 2016. Dr. Patrick Conway has served as Chief Executive Officer of Optum since May 2025. Previously, Patrick served as Optum Rx’s Chief Executive Officer and held numerous leadership roles since joining UnitedHealth Group in February 2020, including service as Chief Executive Officer of Optum Health Care Solutions. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Patrick held prominent senior leadership positions in the private and public sector and clinical settings, including service as Chief Medical Officer and acting administrator at Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and as director of the CMS Innovation Center. Erin McSweeney has served as Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer of UnitedHealth Group since March 2022. From February 2021 to March 2022, Erin served as chief of staff to UnitedHealth Group’s Office of the Chief Executive. From January 2017 to February 2021, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at Optum. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Erin was Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer for EMC Corporation, an international technology company. 9 Table of Contents Tim Noel has served as Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare since January 2025. Previously, Tim served as Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare’s Medicare & Retirement business and held numerous leadership roles since joining UnitedHealth Group from 2007 until January 2025, including serving as Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of federal products for Medicare & Retirement. Tom Roos has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group since August 2015. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Tom was a Partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. Chris Zaetta has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary of UnitedHealth Group since May 2024. Previously, Chris served as Chief Legal Officer of Optum from September 2020 until May 2024. Prior to joining Optum in 2020, Chris was Vice President at Johnson & Johnson, a pharmaceutical company. Chris also held several leadership roles at UnitedHealth Group from May 2011 to September 2019, including Head of Litigation and General Counsel of the organization’s government businesses. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our executive offices are located at 1 Health Drive, Eden Prairie, Minnesota 55344 and 655 New York Avenue, Washington, DC 20001; our telephone number is (800) 328-5979. You can access our website at www.unitedhealthgroup.com to learn more about our company. We make periodic and current reports and amendments available, free of charge, on our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the SEC. Information on or linked to our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other SEC filings. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS The statements, estimates, projections or outlook contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in future filings by us with the SEC, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “forecast,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “should” or similar words or phrases are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this report speaks only as of the date of this report and, except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances, including unanticipated events, after the date of this report. The following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business, which investors and others should consider. We do not undertake to address in future filings with the SEC or other communications regarding our business or results of operations how any of these factors may have caused our results to differ from discussions or information contained in our previous filings or communications. In addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. Any or all forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other SEC filings or public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. Our forward-looking statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions which are difficult to predict or quantify. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only risks we may face. There may be risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we may deem to be immaterial that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position, cash flows and prospects. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry If we fail to estimate, price for and manage our medical costs or design benefits in an effective manner, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Through our risk-based benefit products, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. The profitability of our products depends in large part on our ability to predict and effectively price for and manage medical costs. Our Optum Health business also enters into fully accountable value-based arrangements with payers. Premium revenues from risk-based products constitute nearly 80% of our total consolidated revenues. Estimates of benefit expense payments involve extensive judgement and are subject to considerable inherent variability. Relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs, or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues, have resulted and in the future may result in significant changes in our financial results. If we fail to predict accurately, or effectively price for or manage, the costs of providing care under risk-based arrangements, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of competitive provider contracts and care management programs. Total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered, the cost of each service and the type of service rendered. Although we base the premiums we charge on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period, many factors may cause, and have previously caused, actual costs to exceed those estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. These factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased provider billing intensity, business mix, unexpected differences among new customer populations, increased cost of individual services, costs to deliver care, large-scale medical emergencies, the potential effects of climate change, pandemics, the introduction of new or costly drugs or increases in drug prices, treatments and technology, new treatment guidelines, newly mandated benefits or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. Cost increases in excess of our forecasts typically cannot be recovered in the fixed premium period through higher premiums. For Optum Health’s fully accountable value-based care, any inability to provide higher-quality outcomes and better experiences at lower costs or to integrate our care delivery models could impact our results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. In addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs incurred for which claims are still outstanding. These estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. If these estimates prove inaccurate, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain properly the integrity or availability of our data or successfully consolidate, integrate, upgrade or expand our existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends on the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to serve our members, customers and health care professionals and to operate our business. If the data we rely upon to run our businesses is found to be inaccurate, incomplete, outdated or unreliable or if we fail to effectively maintain or protect the integrity of our data and information systems, including systems powered by or incorporating artificial intelligence (AI), we could experience failures in our health, wellness and information technology products; lose existing customers; have difficulty attracting new customers; experience problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing; have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud; have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals; become subject to regulatory sanctions, penalties, investigations or audits; incur increases in operating expenses; or suffer other adverse consequences. The volume of health care data generated, and the uses of data, including electronic health records, are rapidly expanding. We depend on the integrity of the data in our information systems to implement new and innovative services, automate and deploy new technologies to simplify administrative processes and clinical decision making, price our products and services adequately, provide effective service to our customers and consumers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, provide timely payments to care providers, and accurately report our results of operations. In addition, increasing connectivity among technologies and recent trends toward greater consumer engagement in health care require new and enhanced technologies, including more sophisticated applications for mobile devices and new tools and products that leverage AI to improve the customer experience. We anticipate that fast-evolving AI technologies, including generative AI, will play an increasingly important role in our information systems and customer-facing technology products. Our ability to protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with changes in information processing technology (including AI), regulatory standards and changing customer preferences will require our ongoing commitment of significant development and operational resources. If these commitments fail to provide the anticipated benefits, if we are unable to successfully anticipate future technology developments, or if the cost to keep pace with the technological changes exceeds our estimates, we could be exposed to reputational harm and experience adverse effects on our business. We may not successfully implement our initiatives to consolidate the number of information systems we operate, upgrade and expand our systems’ capabilities, integrate and enhance our systems and develop new systems to keep pace with recent 11 Table of Contents regulations and changes in information processing technology. Failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs. Some of our businesses sell and install software products which may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. A failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a fully-integrated fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Uncertain and rapidly evolving U.S. federal and state, non-U.S. and international laws and regulations related to health data and health information technologies, including those powered by or incorporating AI, may alter the competitive landscape or impose new compliance requirements and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in our markets. If we or third parties we rely on sustain cyberattacks or other privacy or data security incidents resulting in disruption to our operations or the misappropriation or disclosure of protected personal information or proprietary or confidential information, we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, negative operational effects, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences. We routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data in our operations, including protected personal information subject to privacy, security or data breach notification laws, as well as proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third parties. Some of the data we process, store and transmit may be outside of the United States due to our information technology systems and international business operations. We are regularly the target of attempted cyberattacks and other security threats and have previously been, and may in the future be, subject to compromises of the information technology systems we use, information we hold, or information held on our behalf by third parties. For example, we previously reported that our Change Healthcare business, which we had recently acquired, was subject to a cyberattack in 2024, in which the data involved contained protected health information or personally identifiable information. While we have programs in place to detect, contain and respond to data security incidents and provide employees with awareness training regarding phishing, malware and other cyber threats as a protection against cybersecurity risks and incidents, we expect that we will continue to experience incidents, some of which may negatively affect our business. Further, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and are increasing in sophistication, in part due to use of evolving AI technologies (including generative AI), and because our businesses are changing as well, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques and threats, timely detect data security incidents or implement adequate preventive measures. Threat actors and hackers have previously been, and may in the future be, able to negatively affect our operations by penetrating our security controls and causing system and operational disruptions or shutdowns. They may access, misappropriate or otherwise compromise protected personal information or our proprietary or confidential information or that of third parties, and may develop and deploy malicious code (including viruses, ransomware and malware, among others) that can attack our systems, exploit security vulnerabilities, and disrupt or shut down our systems and operations. In addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects or other problems which could unexpectedly compromise our information technology ecosystem. Our systems may also be vulnerable to financial fraud schemes, misplaced or lost data, human error, insider threat, malicious social engineering, or other events which could negatively affect the data or financial accounts, proprietary or confidential information relating to our business or third parties, or our operations. There have previously been and may be in the future heightened vulnerabilities due to recently-acquired or non-integrated businesses. We rely in some circumstances on third-party vendors to process, store and transmit large amounts of data for our business. The operations of these vendors are subject to similar risks, but are outside our direct oversight and control. The costs to eliminate or address these threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cybersecurity incident could be material. We have business continuity and resiliency plans which we maintain, update and test regularly in an effort to contain and remediate potential disruptions from cybersecurity events. If our prevention and remediation efforts are not successful, we may experience operational interruptions, delays, or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. In addition, compromises of our security measures or the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information, proprietary information or confidential information about us, our customers or other third parties, previously and in the future, could expose us or them to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, negative operational impacts, and loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and liability, including regulatory penalties, for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care payers, physicians, hospitals and other service providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We depend substantially on our continued ability to contract with health care payers (as a service provider to those payers), as well as physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other care and service providers at competitive prices. If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, 12 Table of Contents financial position and cash flows. In addition, some of our activities related to network design, provider participation in networks and provider payments could result in disputes, which may be costly and attract negative publicity. In any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions which could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician and hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions which could diminish our bargaining power. In addition, Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs), physician group management services organizations (which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency), and other organizational structures adopted by physicians, hospitals and other care providers may change the way in which these providers do business with us and may change the competitive landscape. Such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which could adversely affect our business, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows by impacting our relationships with these providers or affecting the way we price our products and estimate our costs, which might require us to incur costs to change our operations in an effort to mitigate these impacts. In addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. Our health care benefits businesses have risk-based arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. These arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care providers. To the extent a risk-based health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims which should have been the responsibility of the health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider. Further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts could result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. Health care providers with which we contract may not properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. They may also fail to provide us with the information we need to effectively conduct our businesses, such as information enabling us to estimate costs of care. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. Some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. In some instances, those providers have disputed and may in the future dispute the payment for these services and may institute litigation or arbitration relying on state and federal laws that define the compensation that must be paid to out-of-network providers in some circumstances. The success of some of our businesses depends on maintaining satisfactory relationships with employed, affiliated, and independently contracted physicians and joint venture partners. The physicians who practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. We face and will likely continue to face heightened competition to acquire or manage physician practices or to employ or contract with individual physicians. Our revenues could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or expand satisfactory relationships with physicians, to acquire, recruit or, in some instances, employ physicians, or to retain enrollees following physician departures. In addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with competitors of UnitedHealthcare. Our businesses could suffer if our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with or fail to adequately price their contracts with these third-party payer competitors. Further, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and certain health care providers are customers of our Optum businesses. Physicians also provide medical services at facilities owned by our Optum businesses. Given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including by maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our businesses face significant competition in all of the markets in which we operate. In many geographies or product segments, our competitors have and may continue to have competitive advantages. Our competitive position may also be adversely affected by significant merger and acquisition activity in the industries in which we operate, among both our competitors and suppliers. Consolidation among competitors may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, maintain or improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase our profitability. In addition, our success in the health care marketplace and future growth depends on our ability to develop and deliver innovative and potentially disruptive products and services to satisfy evolving market demands. If we do not continue to 13 Table of Contents innovate and provide products and services which are useful and relevant to health care payers, consumers and our customers, we may not remain competitive and risk losing market share to existing competitors and disruptive new market entrants. We may face risks from new technologies and market entrants that could affect our existing relationship with health plan enrollees in the affected markets. We could sustain competitive disadvantages and loss of market share if we fail to continue developing innovative care models, including by accelerating the transition of care to value-based models that achieve higher quality outcomes and better experiences at lower costs and expand access to virtual and in-home care. If health care payers or providers are unwilling or unable to enter into value-based agreements with us, we may be unable to successfully establish or maintain the contractual or employment relationships necessary to achieve the quality and cost objectives we have for value-based contracting. Additionally, our competitive position could be adversely affected by any failure to develop and apply innovative technologies and other effective data and analytics capabilities or to provide services to our clients focused on these technologies and capabilities. Our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows also could be materially and adversely affected if we do not compete effectively in our markets, if our reputation suffers harm, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services demonstrating value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products. We are routinely subject to private party and governmental legal actions and investigations, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We are routinely made party to a variety of private party and governmental legal actions and investigations related to, among other matters, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. Any failure by us to adhere to the laws and regulations applicable to our businesses could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. Legal actions to which we are a party have included and in the future could include matters related to health care benefits coverage and payment of claims (including disputes with enrollees, customers and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort claims (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by personnel at our affiliates’ facilities, or by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks, including as a result of a failure to adhere to applicable clinical, quality and/or patient safety standards), antitrust claims (including as a result of changes in the enforcement of antitrust laws), whistleblower claims (including claims under the False Claims Act or similar statutes), matters related to our use of or alleged failure to adequately safeguard personal information or other proprietary data, claims related to alleged failure of our technology products to operate properly or fairly, contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. In addition, some of our pharmacy services operations are subject to clinical quality, patient safety and other risks inherent in the dispensing, packaging and distribution of drugs, including claims related to purported dispensing and other operational errors. We also have been and in the future may be a party to class action lawsuits, including those brought by health care professional groups, consumers and investors. We operate in jurisdictions where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to varying degrees of interpretation or uncertainty, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. We are largely self-insured with regard to legal actions, including claims of medical malpractice against our affiliated physicians and us. Although we record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters, it is possible the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. Additionally, physicians and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging medical malpractice and general professional liabilities. Even in states that have imposed caps on damages for such actions, litigants are seeking recoveries under theories of liability that might not be subject to the caps on damages. These actions involve significant defense costs and could result in substantial monetary damages or damage to our reputation. We cannot predict the outcome of significant legal actions in which we are involved. Even in situations where we engage external insurers, our coverage may be disputed or may not be sufficient to cover the entire amount of certain claims. We incur expenses to resolve these matters and current and future legal actions could further increase our cost of doing business, require us to potentially change the way we conduct our business, and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Moreover, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in some markets and businesses. 14 Table of Contents Our increasing use of AI presents legal, regulatory and business risks to our operations, reputation and financial results. We increasingly rely on technologies powered by or incorporating AI in our internal operations and in the delivery of products and services. While these technologies present opportunities to improve efficiency, enhance customer experience, and optimize clinical and administrative processes, they also entail risks and uncertainties. We have developed and implemented policies and procedures intended to promote and sustain the responsible design, development, and use of these technologies, consistent with industry best practices. However, to the extent an AI system does not operate as intended or produces an inaccurate, incomplete or biased output, the system could impact operations, customer service or other functions and could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our business could suffer, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, if we fail to successfully manage our strategic alliances, or to complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions or relationships. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. If we fail to meet the needs of our alliance or joint venture partners, including by developing additional products and services, providing high levels of service, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliances and joint ventures could be damaged or terminated, which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. Further, governmental actions, such as actions by the FTC or DOJ or comparable non-U.S. regulatory bodies, may affect our ability to complete strategic transactions, which could adversely affect our future growth. If we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions to meet our strategic objectives, including as a result of antitrust regulatory enforcement actions, such as those that have been brought against us in the past, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, be placed at a competitive disadvantage or be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Successful acquisitions also require us to effectively, comprehensively and expeditiously integrate the acquired business into our existing operations, including our internal control environment and culture, or otherwise leverage its operations which may present risks different from those presented by organic growth and may be difficult for us to manage. For example, we have experienced and in the future may encounter more acute information technology system vulnerabilities or different litigation risk profiles in recently acquired businesses than we have historically managed. We may be unable to address these vulnerabilities, inadequacies, differences, or failures soon after acquiring a business, which could undermine integration activities, delay launch of acquired products, and increase infrastructure risk. In addition, even with appropriate diligence, pre-acquisition practices of an acquired business have exposed us in the past and may expose us in the future to legal challenges and investigations that could subject us to criminal fines or reputational harm. Even if we are ultimately successful in resolving these matters, defending such claims may be costly and result in negative publicity. If we cannot successfully integrate our acquired businesses and realize contemplated revenue growth opportunities, cost savings and other synergies, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with public health crises arising from large-scale medical emergencies, pandemics, natural disasters and other extreme events, which have had and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and financial performance. Large-scale medical emergencies, pandemics, natural disasters, public health crises and other extreme events could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, cash flows, financial conditions and results of operations. For example, disruptions in public and private infrastructure resulting from such events could increase our operating costs and impair our ability to provide services to our clients and customers. In addition, as a result of these events, the premiums and fees we charge may not be sufficient to cover our medical and administrative costs, deferred medical care could be sought in future periods at potentially higher acuity levels, we could experience reduced demand for our services, and our clinical and non-clinical workforce could be affected and sustain a reduced capacity to handle demand for care. Public health crises arising from natural disasters, such as wildfires, hurricanes, and snowstorms, or effects of climate change could impact our business operations and result in increased medical care costs. Government enactment of emergency powers in response to public health crises could disrupt our business operations, including by restricting availability of, or our ability to deliver, pharmaceuticals or other medical supplies, and could increase the risk of shortages of necessary items. Our sales performance will suffer if we do not adequately attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. Our products and services are sold in part through nonexclusive producers and consultants for whose services and allegiance we must compete. Our sales could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract, retain and support independent producers and consultants or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. Our relationships 15 Table of Contents with producers could be impaired by changes in our business practices and the terms of our relationships, including commission levels. Our businesses are subject to risks associated with unfavorable economic conditions. Unfavorable economic conditions may have a range of impacts on the demand for our products and services. Such conditions also have caused and in future periods could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer particular coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis to reduce their operating costs. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. These conditions could lead to a decrease in people served and in the premium and fee revenues we generate. A prolonged unfavorable economic environment could constrain state and federal budgets and result in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP. A reduction in state Medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retroactively to apply to payments already negotiated or received from the government. In addition, state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the affected governments to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on health insurance and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims. Any of these developments or actions could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. A prolonged unfavorable economic environment could also adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could negatively affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. Further, unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial results by impacting the customers of our Optum businesses, including health plans, hospitals, care providers, employers and others. Our failure to attract, develop, retain, and manage the succession of key employees and executives could adversely affect our business, results of operations and future performance. We depend on our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified employees and executives, including those with diverse talents, backgrounds, experiences and perspectives, to operate and expand our business. While we have development and succession plans in place for our key employees and executives, these plans do not guarantee that the services of our key employees and executives will continue to be available to us. If we are unable to attract, develop, retain and effectively manage the development and succession plans for key employees and executives, our business, results of operations and future performance could suffer. Experienced and highly skilled employees and executives in the health care and technology industries are in high demand and the market for their services is competitive. We may have difficulty in replacing key executives because of the limited number of qualified individuals in these industries with the breadth of skills and experience required to operate and successfully expand our business. Further, the increased availability of hybrid or remote working arrangements has expanded the pool of companies that can compete for qualified employees and executive candidates. Adverse changes to our corporate culture could harm our business operations and our ability to retain key employees and executives. Our investment and loan portfolio may sustain losses which could adversely affect our profitability. Market fluctuations could impair the value of our investment and loan portfolio and our profitability. Volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities which constitute the substantial majority of the fair value of our investments as of December 31, 2025. In addition, a delay in payment of principal or interest by issuers or other borrowers, or defaults by issuers (primarily issuers of our investments in corporate and municipal bonds) or other borrowers, could reduce our investment income and require us to write down the value of our investments or loans, which could adversely affect our profitability and equity. Our investments may not produce total positive returns and we may sell investments at prices which are less than their carrying values. Changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial or market conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our equity interests. In addition, if it should become necessary for us to liquidate a material portion of our investment and loan portfolio on an accelerated basis, such an action could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of our regulated subsidiaries. If the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, equity and credit ratings could be materially and adversely affected. As of December 31, 2025, our goodwill and other intangible assets had a carrying value of $131 billion, representing 42% of our total consolidated assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. The value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses we acquire perform in a manner inconsistent with our assumptions. In addition, we divest businesses from time to time, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset 16 Table of Contents impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in equity value could, in turn, adversely affect our credit ratings. If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases, software and related products, or other intellectual property, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could suffer. We rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, intellectual property rights inherent in software are the subject of substantial litigation, and we expect our software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in the health care-focused software industry segment grows. Such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Any downgrades in our credit ratings could increase our borrowing and operating costs. Claims paying ability, financial strength and debt ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used by customers and creditors. We believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. Our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. Each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically. Our ratings reflect each credit rating agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. We have been the subject of downgrades and other negative credit rating actions in past periods, and may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings in future periods. Any downgrades in our credit ratings could materially increase our costs of or ability to access funds in the debt capital markets and otherwise materially increase our operating costs. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business Our business activities in the United States and other countries are highly regulated and new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our business. We are regulated by federal, state and local governments in the United States and other countries where we do business. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. For example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including regulations and licensure requirements related to Preferred Provider Organizations, MCOs, UR and TPAs. Under state guaranty association laws, certain insurance companies can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of impaired or insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or similar lines of business. Any such assessment could expose our insurance entities and other insurers to the risk they would be required to pay a portion of an impaired or insolvent insurance company’s claims through state guaranty associations. Some of our businesses provide products or services to government agencies. For example, some of our Optum and UnitedHealthcare businesses hold government contracts or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. Our relationships with these government agencies are subject to the terms of our contracts with the agencies and to laws and regulations regarding government contracts. Certain laws and regulations restrict or prohibit companies from performing work for government agencies that might be viewed to involve an actual or potential conflict of interest. These laws and regulations may limit our ability to pursue and perform certain types of engagements, thereby materially and adversely affecting our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Some of our Optum businesses are also subject to regulations distinct from those faced by our insurance and HMO subsidiaries, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. These regulations include state telemedicine regulations; debt collection laws; banking regulations; consumer financial protection laws; distributor and producer licensing requirements; state corporate practice of medicine restrictions; fee-splitting rules; and health care facility licensure and certificate of need requirements. These risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market or provide our products and services, or to achieve targeted operating margins, or may increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. 17 Table of Contents The laws and regulations governing our businesses and interpretations of those laws and regulations are subject to frequent and often unpredictable change. For example, legislative, administrative and public policy changes to the ACA have been and likely will continue to be considered, and we cannot predict if the ACA will be further modified or to what extent such modifications may impact our businesses or member enrollment. Additionally, changes in tax laws or unfavorable resolutions of exams could create additional tax liabilities. The integration of entities we acquire into our businesses may affect the way in which existing laws and regulations apply to us, including by subjecting us to laws and regulations which did not previously apply to us. The broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our businesses could compel us to change how we do business, renegotiate existing contracts and other arrangements, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, resolution of commercial disputes and other actions. We also must obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products and services, increase prices for some regulated products and services and complete or integrate strategic transactions. For example, premium rates for our health insurance and managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government. Additionally, we must submit data on proposed rate increases to HHS on many of our products for monitoring purposes. Geographic and product expansions of our businesses may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. Delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We also currently operate outside of the United States and in the future may acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the United States, increasing our exposure to non-U.S. regulatory regimes. Our failure to comply with U.S. or non-U.S. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the United States or to establish constructive relationships with non-U.S. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services or to do so at targeted operating margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Non-U.S. regulatory regimes, which vary by jurisdiction, encompass, among other matters, local and cross-border taxation, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, capital (including minimum solvency margin and reserve requirements), management control, labor, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers). Any foreign regulator or court may take an approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations which could differ from the approach taken by U.S. regulators or courts. In addition, our non-U.S. businesses and operations are subject to U.S. laws regulating the conduct and activities of U.S.-based businesses operating outside the United States, such as the FCPA, which prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. The health care industry is regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate concerning industry regulation. Negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation, and expose us to unexpected or unwarranted regulatory scrutiny. As a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We participate in various federal, state and local government health care benefit programs, including as a payer in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, various Medicaid programs and CHIP, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. Some of our Optum businesses also provide services to payers participating in government health care programs. A reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies, or termination of the contract at the option of the government, has affected and in future periods may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The government health care programs in which we participate are generally subject to frequent changes, including changes which may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage (such as Medicaid eligibility redeterminations in certain states and federal enhanced premium subsidy reductions), reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in, or prevent our expansion into, certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. Revenues for these programs depend on periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. Funding for these government programs depends on many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level. For example, CMS in the past has reduced or frozen Medicare Advantage benchmarks, and additional cuts to Medicare Advantage benchmarks are possible. In addition, from time to time, CMS makes changes to the way it calculates Medicare Advantage risk adjustment payments. Although we have adjusted members’ benefits and premiums on a selective basis, ceased to offer benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and 18 Table of Contents operating cost management in response to the benchmark reductions and other funding pressures, these or other strategies may not fully address the funding pressures in the Medicare Advantage program. In addition, payers in the Medicare Advantage program may be subject to reductions in payments from CMS as a result of decreased funding or recoupment pursuant to government audit. States have also made changes in rates and reimbursements for Medicaid members and audits can result in unexpected recoupments. Under the Medicaid managed care program, state Medicaid agencies solicit bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care Medicaid health programs. If we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state Medicaid managed care contracts, we risk losing the members who were enrolled in those Medicaid programs. Under the Medicare Part D program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. If the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. Chronic failure to meet the benchmarks could result in termination of these government contracts. In general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs and other factors. If any of these assumptions are materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the programs on which we bid, implementation of material program or policy changes after our bid submission, or submissions by our competitors at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Many of the government health care coverage programs we participate in are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. For example, as part of the ACA, CMS has a system providing various quality bonus payments to Medicare Advantage plans meeting specified quality star ratings at the individual plan or local contract level. The star rating system considers various measures adopted by CMS, including, among others, quality of care, preventive services, chronic illness management, handling of appeals and customer satisfaction. Plans must have a rating of four stars or higher to qualify for bonus payments, and CMS has made and may make additional changes to the star rating program that impact the ability of our plans to achieve four-star or higher ratings. If we do not maintain or continue to improve our star ratings, our plans may not be eligible for quality bonuses and we may experience a negative impact on our revenues and the benefits our plans can offer, which could materially and adversely affect the marketability of our plans and the number of people we serve. Any changes in standards or care delivery models applying to government health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, or our inability to maintain or improve our quality scores and star ratings to meet evolving government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. CMS uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding and adjust monthly capitation payments for Medicare programs. For Medicare Advantage plans, these adjustments are made according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers. For Medicare Part D plans, payment adjustments are driven by risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs forecasted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. Some state Medicaid programs utilize a similar process. For example, our UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to CMS or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. CMS and the Office of Inspector General for HHS periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (RADV) audits of selected Medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers. Some of our local plans have been selected for such audits, which in the past have resulted and in future periods could result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by CMS. We have been and in the future may become involved in routine, regular and special governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. Such investigations, audits, reviews or assessments sometimes arise out of, or prompt claims or class action lawsuits by private litigants or whistleblowers regarding, among other allegations, claims that we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false or erroneous claims to the government. Government investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could lead to government actions, which have resulted and in future periods could result in adverse publicity, the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our pharmacy care services businesses face regulatory and operational risks and uncertainties which may differ from the risks of our other businesses. We provide pharmacy care services through our Optum Rx and UnitedHealthcare businesses. Each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback, beneficiary inducement and other laws governing the relationships of the business with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. In addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry which could materially affect current industry practices, including potential new legislation and 19 Table of Contents regulations regarding the receipt or disclosure of rebates and other fees from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies and other utilization management tools, the use of average wholesale prices or other pricing benchmarks, pricing for specialty pharmaceuticals, limited access to networks, and pharmacy network reimbursement methodologies. Further, various governmental agencies have conducted and continue to conduct investigations and studies into certain PBM practices, which have resulted and in future periods may result in PBMs agreeing to civil penalties, including the payment of money and entry into corporate integrity agreements, or could materially and adversely impact the PBM business model. As a provider of pharmacy benefit management services, Optum Rx is also subject to an increasing number of licensure, registration and other laws and accreditation standards. Optum Rx conducts business through home delivery, specialty and compounding pharmacies, pharmacies located in community mental health centers and home infusion, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those of the DEA and individual state controlled substance authorities, the Food and Drug Administration and Boards of Pharmacy. We could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our home delivery, specialty or compounding or clinic-based pharmacies or the provision of home infusion services, as well as claims related to the inherent risks in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. Disruptions from any of our home delivery, specialty pharmacy or home infusion services could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, our pharmacy care services businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans subject to ERISA. A private party or the DOL, which is the agency that enforces ERISA, could assert that fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our pharmacy care services businesses even where those businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. If a court were to determine such fiduciary obligations apply, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or claims we entered into prohibited transactions. If we fail to comply with applicable privacy, security, technology and data laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers utilizing protected personal information on our behalf, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of protected personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and addressed in requirements of our customer contracts. Additionally, legislative and regulatory action in the United States at the federal, state and local levels, as well as internationally, is emerging in the areas of AI and automation. These laws, regulations and requirements are subject to frequent and often unpredictable change. Compliance with new privacy, security, technology and data laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain or require us to alter our business model or operations. Internationally, many of the jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply. We expect there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection, information security, and AI/ML and automation in the European Union, UK, Chile, India and other jurisdictions, which may have negative impacts on our businesses or the businesses of our customers. HIPAA requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with specified privacy and security requirements. While we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. Several of our businesses act as business associates to their covered entity customers and, as a result, collect, use, disclose and maintain protected personal information in order to provide services to these customers. If HHS alleges or finds noncompliance by us with HIPAA privacy or security requirements, the allegations or findings could damage our reputation and subject us to monetary and other sanctions. Through our Optum businesses, we maintain a database of administrative and clinical data statistically de-identified in accordance with HIPAA standards. Noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of protected personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business and, among other consequences, could subject us to mandatory disclosure to affected customers and the media, loss of existing or new customers, and significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents, and could also result in significant fines, penalties and litigation awards. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We increasingly rely on new and evolving technologies, including those powered by or incorporating AI, as part of our internal operations and in the delivery of our products and services. AI technologies are subject to evolving and uncertain U.S. federal, state, and international laws and regulations. Emerging requirements may impose new compliance obligations, increase operating costs, or limit certain uses of AI. 20 Table of Contents Restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our regulated subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business, service our debt and return capital to our shareholders. Because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent on dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Many of these subsidiaries are regulated by state departments of insurance or similar regulatory authorities. We are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. The levels of required capitalization depend primarily on the volume of premium revenues generated and medical costs incurred by the applicable subsidiary. In most states, we are required to seek approval by state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from our regulated subsidiaries exceeding specified amounts. An inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.